THEY WERE OPEN
TO TRYING TO ADOPT OR DEPTH THE
PROJECT FOR LOCAL NEEDS IF THEY
COULD I ASK THEM IF THEY WOULD
BE OPEN TO A DISCUSSION
REGARDING INCLUDING A
CONFERENCE CENTER INSIDE THE
HOTEL.
THEY REPLIED YES, IN
MID-SEPTEMBER OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE I CONVENED A MEETING WITH
REPS WHERE I INVITED REPS FROM
SEVERAL OTHER COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS.
THE PURPOSE OF THAT MEETING WAS
SO SEVERAL OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
COULD HEAR ABOUT BEING
APPROACHED AND WHAT THE PROJECT
WAS ALL ABOUT.
>> I OPENED THAT MEETING BY
DISCLOSING THAT A MEMBER OF THE
TEAM HAD WORKED FOR ME OVER 10
YEARS AGO IN CINCINNATI CITY
REPS MADE OFFICIALS AWARE
OF AWARE OF SOME NON CITY OWNED
SITES IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
THEY EXPRESSED A PREFERENCE FOR
THE CLINE LOT AND DISCUSSIONS
BEGAN IN EARNEST.
I WOULD LIKE TO INVITE SARAH
MILLER, THE CEO OF DESTINATION
ANN ARBOR TO MAKE HER
PRESENTATION
.
THANK YOU.
>> YOU HAVE TO TURN THEM NOW.
>> WELL, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
THANK YOU FOR ALL THE
ADJUSTMENTS.
WONDERFUL STAFF.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S GET STARTED.
SOME OF US SOME OF YOU MAY NOT
KNOW WHO WE ARE FOR OVER FOUR
DECADES DESTINATION ARBOR HAS
BEEN A GUIDING FORCE AND
MARKETING WASHTENAW COUNTY
ESTABLISHING ESTAB IS
ESTABLISHING IT AS THE PREMIER
DESTINATION FOR TRAVELERS
MEETING AND SPORTS PLANNERS ARE
DEDICATED EFFORTS HAVE NOT ONLY
HIGHLIGHTED THE REGION'S APPEAL
BUT HAVE ALSO PLAYED A PIVOTAL
ROLE IN DRIVING ECONOMIC GROWTH
AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
THROUGH TOURISM AND EVENTS AND
THE SLIDE YOU CAN SEE WE ARE A
PRIVATE NONPROFIT REGIONAL
ORGANIZATION WHOSE MISSION IS
TO ELEVATE ECONOMIC VITALITY
AND CONNECT OUR COMMUNITIES
THROUGH THE POWER OF TRAVEL TO
DELIVER ON OUR MISSION.
YOU CAN SEE THE SLIDE SOME
OF THE WAYS WE ARE WORKING TO
ACTIVELY PROMOTE WASHTENAW
COUNTY THIS EVENING WE ARE
FOCUSING ON A CRUCIAL ASPECT
OF OUR MISSION THE IMPORTANCE
OF ATTRACTING LARGE MEETINGS,
LARGE SCALE EVENTS AND
CONFERENCES TO ANN ARBOR AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA.
THESE LARGE SCALE EVENTS FUEL
ECONOMIC GROWTH, ELEVATE OUR
NATIONAL PROFILE AND FOSTER A
VIBRANT COMMUNITY.
I WOULD LIKE TO INFORM YOU ON
INDEPENDENT RESEARCH THAT
REFLECTS THE NEED FOR LARGE
MEETING SPACE AND A MEETING
PLANNERS DESIRE TO BE IN A
DOWNTOWN CORE SUCH AS ANN
ARBOR.
AS I MOVE THROUGH TONIGHT'S
PRESENTATION IT'S IMPORTANT TO
NOTE THAT WE ARE NOT ENDORSING
OR FAVORING ANY SPECIFIC
PROJECT RATHER SUPPORTING A
NEED FOR LARGE MEETING SPACE BY
SHARING KNOWLEDGE WE OPEN THE
DOOR TO INNOVATIVE IDEAS AND
POTENTIAL PARTNERSHIPS THAT CAN
BENEFIT OUR COMMUNITY FROM OUR
TWENTY TWENTY ONE POST PANDEMIC
ECONOMIC IMPACT STUDY WITH
ANDERSON ECONOMIC GROUP WE SAW
THAT VISITOR SPENDING IS
ESSENTIAL TO GROWING THE LOCAL
ECONOMY AND WORKFORCE IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE COUNTY S SIX POINT
ONE MILLION VISITORS GENERATING
SIX THIRTY FOUR MILLION IN
VISITOR SPENDING AT LOCAL
BUSINESSES INCLUDING
SHOPPING,
DINING, ENTERTAINMENT, LODGING
AND MORE VISITOR SPENDING
SUPPORTED OVER SIX THOUSAND
EIGHT HUNDRED FULL TIME
EQUIVALENT JOBS IN WASHINGTON
COUNTY OVER THE SAME TIME
PERIOD AND PROVIDED ONE HUNDRED
AND NINETY MILLION AND AN
INCOME FOR LOCAL WORKERS ACROSS
THE COUNTY.
THE VISITOR ECONOMY GENERATED
THREE POINT THIRTY THREE
MILLION IN STATE AND LOCAL TAX
REVENUES THAT PROVIDE AN ARRAY
OF ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES
FOR RESTAURANTS RESIDENTS
EXCUSE ME INCLUDING K THROUGH
12 EDUCATION, LAW ENFORCEMENT,
LOCAL LIBRARIES, PARKS, ROAD
SERVICES MORE AS WE ANTICIPATE
A TWENTY TWENTY THREE ECONOMIC
IMPACT STUDY TO BE COMPLETED
THIS YEAR, WE ANTICIPATE THESE
NUMBERS WILL ONLY GROW DUE TO
THE STABILIZATION OF THE TRAVEL
INDUSTRY AND CONTINUED
RECOVERY FROM THE PANDEMIC
FURTHER SHOWCASING THE VITAL
ROLE OF TOURISM IN OUR REGION'S
PROSPERITY DESTINATION AND OUR
PARTNER WITH WASHTENAW COUNTY
IN TWENTY NINETEEN FOR A
FEASIBILITY STUDY TO OFFICIALLY
DETERMINE THE ECONOMIC
POTENTIAL OF A CONFERENCE
CENTER WHILE CONSIDERING LAND
USE SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY
IMPACT AND FUNDING STRATEGIES.
THE LAST TIME A STUDY LIKE THIS
WAS CONDUCTED WAS IN THE LATE
NINETEEN EIGHTIES DUE TO THE
POTENTIAL IMPACTS OF THE
PANDEMIC WE HAVE GONE THROUGH
THE PROCESS TO UPDATE THE STUDY
WITH FINALIZED RESULTS EXPECTED
IN MID-FEBRUARY THROUGH THE
RESULTS SHOWN TODAY IN TODAY'S
PRESENTATION THEY ARE
PRELIMINARY FINDINGS FROM THIS
MOST RECENT DRAFT CONVENTION
SPORTS AND LEISURE, WHICH
YOU'LL KNOW ON MANY OF THE
SLIDES AS CSL IS THE
ORGANIZATION COMMISSIONED FOR
THE STUDY.
IT WAS FOUNDED IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY EIGHT TO PROVIDE FOCUSED
AND INDEPENDENT RESEARCH TO THE
EVENT FACILITY INDUSTRY CSL
CONSULTING SERVICES HAVE
PROVIDED GUIDANCE OF MORE THAN
TWO THOUSAND CONVENTION
CONFERENCE MULTIPURPOSE AND
MANY OTHER EVENT FACILITY
PROJECTS THROUGHOUT NORTH
AMERICA.
THE CSL TEAM HAS OVERSEEN AN
EXTENSIVE NUMBER OF EVENT
FACILITY PLANNING STUDIES
THROUGHOUT MICHIGAN AND THE
GREATER MIDWEST REGION,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
DETROIT MCCOMB COUNTY, JACKSON
LANSING, GRAND RAPIDS, PORT
HURON, MICHIGAN AND SOUTH HAVEN
CSL CONDUCTED OVER 50
STAKEHOLDER INTERVIEWS WITH
LOCAL AREA ORGANIZATIONS
COMMUNITY LEADERS IN WASHOE
COUNTY ALONG WITH ONE HUNDRED
PHONE INTERVIEWS, A MEETING
REPRESENTING MORE THAN SIX
HUNDRED AND FIFTY CONFERENCES.
THIS INCLUDES A LARGER AREA
OF STUDY EXAMINING EXISTING
MARKETING MARKET CONDITIONS AND
COMPETITIVE PRELIMINARY
FINDINGS INCLUDED A SUBSTANTIAL
GAP IN THE MARKET FOR A WELL
LOCATED, ADEQUATELY SIZED
CONVENTION FACILITY.
THIS IDEALLY WOULD HAVE A TOTAL
SELLABLE SPACE OF SEVENTY FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET SQUARE
FEET BROKEN OUT THE WAY YOU SEE
HERE ON THE SLIDE.
AS YOU CAN SEE THERE IS A NEED
FOR ANCILLARY HOTEL ROOMS
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE TO
ACCOMMODATE THE LARGE POTENTIAL
ATTENDEES NUMBERS.
THIS DOES POSITION DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR WITH ITS HOTEL SUPPLY
WALKABLE DOWNTOWN AND AMENITIES
FOR VISITORS SEBEN WHICH IS A
LOCALLY IS A GLOBALLY EXCUSE ME
RECOGNIZED LEADER AND EVENT
MANAGEMENT AND VENUE SOURCING
TECHNOLOGY UTILIZING THEIR
EXTENSIVE DATABASE AND INDUSTRY
LEADING TECHNOLOGY THEY WERE
ABLE TO ACCURATELY ASSESS THE
VOLUME AND VALUE OF REQUESTS
FOR PROPOSALS IN THE MARKET
THAT COULDN'T BE ACCOMMODATED
DUE TO THE EXISTING SPACE
LIMITATIONS.
THIS DATA IS CRUCIAL IN
UNDERSTANDING THE MARKET
POTENTIAL AND PLANNING FOR THE
FUTURE AND THE FIRST NINE
MONTHS OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE
THERE ARE EIGHT THOUSAND TWO
HUNDRED AND THIRTEEN REQUESTS
FOR PROPOSALS FOR MEETING
PLANNERS SENT OUT ACROSS NINE
STATES IN THE MIDWEST SEEKING
VENUES WITH FIFTY TO SEVENTY
FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF MEETING SPACE AND
ACCOMMODATIONS FOR TWO HUNDRED
AND FIFTY HOTEL ROOM NIGHTS DUE
TO THE LIMITED MEETING SPACE
AVAILABLE IN WASHTENAW COUNTY,
WE WERE UNABLE TO RESPOND TO
THESE RFP WAS THE FIVE BILLION
DOLLAR FIGURE YOU SEE REFLECTS
THE CUMULATIVE VALUE OF THIS
MISSED OPPORTUNITY AND IS DUE
TO THE CURRENT SPACE
LIMITATIONS.
IT IS NOT A PROJECTION
OF FUTURE REVENUE BUT AN
INDICATION OF POTENTIAL MARKET
REACH WITH EXPANDED FACILITIES
MEANING WE WOULD NOT BE AWARDED
ALL EIGHT THOUSAND CONFERENCES
YET EVEN A SMALL PERCENTAGE
WOULD HAVE SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC
BENEFITS.
LOOKING AT THE BROADER PICTURE,
THIS SLIDE COMPARES WASHTENAW
COUNTY TO A POTENTIAL
COMPETITIVE SET IN LIKE MARKETS
IDENTIFIED BY CSL.
THE BOLDON RECOMMENDATION
REFLECTS THE SUGGESTED IDEAL
FACILITY THAT I REFERENCED
EARLIER THAT CURRENTLY DOES NOT
EXIST WITHOUT THAT TYPE
OF FACILITY.
YOU CAN SEE WE ARE NOT
COMPETING WITH THIS COMPETITIVE
SET WHILE THERE IS NO EXACT
REPLICATION OF OUR DESTINATION,
THE COMPETITIVE SET HERE MAY
EACH HAVE SOMETHING SIMILAR TO
OURS SUCH AS SIZE BEING A
COLLEGE TOWN CLOSE TO LARGE
METROPOLITAN AREAS OR A LARGE
AIRPORT HUB.
WHEN WE CONSIDER MICHIGAN'S
CONFERENCE CENTERS THE TOTAL
SELLABLE SPACE THEY OFFER
CITIES LIKE DETROIT BY GRAND
RAPIDS, LANSING AND KALAMAZOO
ARE HOME TO SOME OF THE LARGEST
VENUES AND TOP THIS LIST AND
ANN, HOWEVER, IS NOTABLY
MISSING FROM THIS RANKING.
ACCORDING TO CCLS
RECOMMENDATIONS INCLUDING A NEW
VENUE IS ADVISED WHAT POSITION
TRI-COUNTY AMONG THESE LEADING
LOCATIONS TURNING OUR ATTENTION
TO WASHINGTON COUNTY AND THEIR
MEETING VENUES.
LET'S EXAMINE THE SPACES
AVAILABLE SORTED BY THE TOTAL
AREA AVAILABLE FOR EVENTS.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO HIGHLIGHT
THAT CURRENTLY OUR MARKET LACKS
DEDICATED EXHIBIT SPACE
ENTIRELY.
THE CONSULTING FIRM CSL
RECOMMENDS TO MEET THAT DEMAND
WE SHOULD AIM TO OFFER AT LEAST
FORTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF EXHIBIT SPACE.
EXHIBIT SPACE IS KNOWN TO HAVE
MORE OPEN FLOOR PLANS AND BE
ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE LARGE
GROUPS INTO ONE BARRIER FREE
SPACE THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE
ANN ARBOR AREA STRONG APPEAL
OF WORLD DINING, ENTERTAINMENT
ARTS AND CULTURE.
VIBRANT ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS
AND PROXIMITY TO METRO DETROIT
AIRPORT CREATE AN ATTRACTIVE
DESTINATION FOR MEETING
PLANNERS TO HOST THEIR EVENTS
HERE, HOWEVER, WE OFTEN FIND
OURSELVES FACING A CHALLENGE
WITH OUR CURRENT SPACE
LIMITATIONS.
THESE LIMITATIONS ARE
PARTICULARLY EVIDENT IN HOW WE
CAN ONLY ACCOMMODATE CERTAIN
LARGE GROUPS BASED ON
AVAILABILITY OF THE VENUE AND
ONLY AT CERTAIN TIMES OF THE
YEAR.
FOR INSTANCE, MANY OF YOU ARE
AWARE OF THE THREE UNION GROUPS
THAT COME TO TOWN THE
IRONWORKERS ELECTRICAL TRAINING
ALLIANCE AND THE OTHER
INSTRUCTOR TRAINING PROGRAM ARE
PLUMBERS AND PIPEFITTERS AS
MOST OF THEM THE LATTER TWO
WHICH FILL ALL THE HOTEL ROOMS
IN WASHINGTON COUNTY ALL USE
OUR UNIVERSITY SPACES IN THE
SUMMER YET OUTSIDE THE SEASON
ARE AVAILABLE.
OUR ABILITY TO HOST SUCH A
LEVEL EVENTS AND CONFERENCES IS
SIGNIFICANTLY LIMITED DUE TO
THE THE ACTIVE ACADEMIC
CALENDAR AND STUDENT PRESENCE
ON CAMPUS WITH OUR SPACE
LIMITATIONS WE TRY TO GET AS
CREATIVE AS POSSIBLE WITH OUR
COMMUNITY PARTNERS AND OFTEN
HOST MEETINGS ACROSS MULTIPLE
VENUES.
PLANNERS TEND TO LOOK FOR
DESTINATIONS WHERE ATTENDEES
CAN FIT UNDER ONE ROOF FOR
REASONS OF LOGISTICS AND COST.
WE OFTEN HERE I'D LOVE TO BRING
OUR GROUP TO ANN ARBOR.
WE JUST NEED TO HAVE ONE SPACE
TO HOLD OUR MEETING AND CLOSING
AND OFFER AND ARBOR OFFERS MANY
THINGS AT MEETING PLANNERS WANT
INCLUDING A SAFE AND WALKABLE
DOWNTOWN FILLED WITH
RESTAURANTS, NIGHTLIFE AND
ENTERTAINMENT COMPLEMENTED BY
CONVENIENT AIRPORT ACCESS.
DETROIT AND MULTIPLE DOWNTOWN
HOTELS.
THE INSIGHTS FROM THE
CONVENTION CENTER FEASIBILITY
STUDY BRING TO FOCUS THE VAST
POTENTIAL IT LIES UNTAPPED DUE
TO OUR SPACE CURRENT SPACE
CONSTRAINTS.
THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF VISITOR
SPENDING IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
IS SIGNIFICANT SUPPORTING
THOUSANDS OF JOBS AND
CONTRIBUTING MILLIONS IN STATE
AND LOCAL TAX REVENUES NOT TO
MENTION SUPPORTING THE LOCAL
RESTAURANTS, RETAIL AND
ATTRACTIONS.
WE LOVE FROM THE FINDINGS TODAY
FROM THE FINDINGS I'VE SHARED
TODAY, IT'S CLEAR THERE'S A
SIGNIFICANT OPPORTUNITY HERE
FOR MEETING SPACE IN THE COUNTY
AND OTHER COMMUNITIES IN THE
STATE ARE CAPITALIZING ON THAT.
MY HOPE FOR SHARING THIS
INFORMATION WITH YOU TODAY IS
THE KEY TAKEAWAY THAT WE HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO CREATE NEW
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
IF WE HAD A CONFERENCE CENTER
TO ACCOMMODATE LARGE SCALE
MEETINGS AND EVENTS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU, SIR.
MIXED UP BY CHRIS SCHROEDER FOR
ME TO DO HIS PRESENTATION
.
THANK YOU.
HI, I'M CHRIS SCHRADER.
I'M THE CEO OF SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED RESORTS.
I'M ALSO A CITIZEN OF ANN ARBOR
FOR THE LAST THIRTY ONE YEARS
SO MY KIDS HAVE GONE TO SCHOOL
HERE.
MY DAUGHTER GRADUATED FROM THE
UNIVERSITY MICHIGAN SORRY.
>> OKAY.
FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO SAY
THANK YOU TO ALL OF YOU FOR
COMING HERE.
THIS SHOWS YOUR INTEREST IN
WHAT WE'RE DOING.
I APPRECIATE THAT HE WAS
INTERESTED AFTER LISTENING TO
THIS PRESENTATION.
I'M GOING HOW DO WE FIX THIS?
HOW DO WE TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF THIS?
YOU KNOW, THE REALITY IS IT IS
INTERESTING WE ARE DOING
PROJECTS ALL OVER THE COUNTRY
LITERALLY ALL OVER THE WESTERN
HEMISPHERE.
I WOKE UP ONE DAY AND CALLED
OUT AND I SAID WHY ARE WE NOT
DOING THIS HERE?
THIS IS OUR OWN BACKYARD.
I ACTUALLY DROVE AROUND ANN
ARBOR LOOKING FOR A CONFERENCE
CENTER BECAUSE I THOUGHT WE HAD
ONE AND THEN AFTER DRIVING
AROUND I SAID WE DON'T HAVE A
CONFERENCE CENTER.
WE ARE A WORLD CLASS
DESTINATION.
WE ARE WORLD CLASS UNIVERSITY.
WE JUST WON THE NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP.
I HEARD YOU KNOW, SO THAT'S A
BIG DEAL.
IT'S A BIG YOU KNOW, I'M
EXCITED BECAUSE I HAVE PEOPLE
FROM ALL OVER THE COUNTRY THAT
HAVE COME HERE TO SUPPORT WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
SO I WANT TO TELL YOU A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT SPORTS STAR RESORTS A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING TO ADDRESS THE NEEDS THAT
DESTINATION NAVAJO.
MY FIRST LOOK AT THOSE NUMBERS
I THOUGHT WE NEEDED THE
CONFERENCE THERE WHO I LOOKED
AT THOSE NUMBERS.
I SAID WOW, YOU WERE MISSING
OUT LITERALLY ON LIKE YOU SAID,
IF WE JUST HAD A SMALL PIECE
OF THIS HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS THAT WOULD BE COMING
INTO THIS COMMUNITY.
THEY'RE GOING TO OUR
RESTAURANTS, TO OUR RETAIL, YOU
KNOW, TO OTHER HOTELS BECAUSE
IF WE BRING THE CONFERENCES ALL
THE HOTELS ARE GOING TO
BENEFIT.
ALL SHIPS ARE GOING RISE HIGH
TIDE.
SO I THINK TONIGHT OUR GOAL IS
TO GIVE YOU INFORMATION SO YOU
KNOW MORE ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING.
WHY WE'RE DOING IT AND WHO WE
ARE.
SO SPORTS ILLUSTRATED RESORTS
WILL SEE THIS ACTUALLY WORKS.
HERE WE GO.
>> SO TRUSTED LEADER.
SO SPORTS ILLUSTRATED HAS BEEN
AROUND FOR 70 YEARS.
YOU KNOW, I FIRST STARTED
TALKING ABOUT SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED TAKING THIS ICONIC
LEGACY BRAND AND TURNING INTO
AN ACTIVE LIFESTYLE
KIND
OF HOTEL HOSPITALITY
ENTERTAINMENT BRAND.
EVERYBODY GOT IT.
IN FACT, WHEN WE FIRST PUT OUR
FIRST PRESS RELEASE ON OUR
FIRST UNIVERSITY PROJECT WHICH
IS IN UNIVERSITY ALABAMA,
TUSCALOOSA, THAT'S WHEN THEY
NOTICED AND SO MY PARTNER SAID
WHY ARE WE NOT DOING THIS ANN
ARBOR WE HAD OVER SIX MAJOR
UNIVERSITIES CONTACT US AND
THEIR TOWNS SAY WE WANT YOU
HERE, WE'VE GOT LAND FOR YOU
WANT YOU HERE.
SO WE KIND OF PUT THE FULL
COURT PRESS ON SAYING LET'S GET
SOMETHING GOING IN ANN ARBOR
AND YOU KNOW, SO I'LL TELL YOU
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED AGAIN.
SEVENTY YEARS WORTH OF ICONIC
IP, THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS
OF COVERS COVERING EVERYTHING
FROM THE OLYMPICS TO ALL OUR
FAVORITE SPORTS AND BEYOND.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S UNIQUE
ABOUT SPORTS ILLUSTRATED IN
SOMETHING THAT YOU WERE TALKING
A LOT ABOUT WHEN WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT WE NEED A WORLD
CLASS FACILITY HERE, WE WANT TO
COMPETE AGAINST ALL THOSE
OTHERS.
WE ARE AN ATTRACTION.
WE HAVE LITERALLY BEEN GIVEN,
YOU KNOW, DOLLARS FROM STATES
BECAUSE THEY LOOK AT US AND SAY
YOU'RE NOT JUST HOTEL, YOU'RE
AN ATTRACTION THAT'S GOING TO
STAND OUT.
I SAY ATTRACTION MEANING THAT
PEOPLE CAN GO OK, I CAN GO TO
THIS CONFERENCE CENTER, I CAN
GO ANN ARBOR WHICH HAS A
FANTASTIC BRAND.
WE HAVE GREAT RESTAURANTS AND
OBVIOUSLY A GREAT JOB
OF CREATING THE DESTINATION AND
NOW WE'RE TAKING THAT ONE STEP
FURTHER AND DOING SOMETHING
VERY UNIQUE.
JUST TO GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE,
THERE'S REALLY THREE MAJOR
COMPONENTS THE SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED ONE WE'RE A
POWERHOUSE MEDIA AUTHORITY.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE ALSO A BIG
BRAND.
WE HAVE MULTIPLE FACETS
UNDERNEATH OF SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED BRAND FROM OUR
TICKETING TO OUR EVENTS TO OUR
CONFERENCES TO OUR BROADCAST TO
YOU KNOW, WE DO CAMPS.
WE DO ALL KINDS OF STUFF WITH
THROUGH THE BRAND.
THE OTHER THING IS WE HAVE
SEVENTY YEARS WORTH OF ICONIC
IMAGES.
THE ONE OF THE LARGEST
DATABASES, INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY THERE IS I MEAN YOU
CAN IMAGINE ALL THE COVERS AT
ONE TIME SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
WITH A WEEKLY YOU KNOW, SO WERE
ABLE TO COME INTO THIS
PARTICULAR PROPERTY AND BRING
THIS KIND OF ICONIC
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.
WE CAN LITERALLY YOU CAN WALK
INTO THE HISTORY OF YOU THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
YOU CAN WALK IN THE HISTORY
OF THE TOWN, THE HISTORY OF THE
PEOPLE THAT COME THROUGH YOU
KNOW THIS AND YOU KNOW MICHAEL
PHELPS, YOU KNOW TOM BRADY, ET
CETERA.
ALL THESE DIFFERENT PEOPLE THAT
HAVE COME THROUGH AND THAT WE
CAN HIGHLIGHT AND REALLY
SHOWCASE ANN ARBOR AND THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TIE IN
IN A WHOLE DIFFERENT WAY THAN
EVER BEFORE.
>> JUST GIVE YOU A LITTLE QUICK
BACKGROUND ON SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED RESORTS RIGHT NOW
WE HAVE PROJECTS HE SAID WE
HAVE ABOUT A BILLION AND A HALF
DOLLARS WORTH OF PROJECTS
AROUND THE COUNTRY THE
CARIBBEAN.
WE HAVE PROPERTIES OPEN THAT
WE'VE OPENED IN THE CARIBBEAN.
WE HAVE MULTIPLE UNIVERSITY
PROJECTS.
YOU KNOW, I PROBABLY GET IN
TROUBLE FOR SAYING THIS BUT
BECAUSE I'M FROM ANN ARBOR I
WANT THIS TO BE THE FIRST IN
THE GROUND.
I WANT TO BEAT OUT SOME OTHER
UNIVERSITIES AND WE PLAN TO DO
THAT.
THE OTHER THING IS WHERE
EVERYTHING FROM OUR STAR
RESORTS AND EXPERIENCES TO ECO
LODGES YOU ECO AND ADVENTURE
LODGES TO OUR UNIVERSITY MODEL
.
LET'S GIVE YOU SOME OF THE
COMPONENTS OF THE SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED HOTEL RESORTS BRAND
FOR STARTERS WE DO HAVE A
STRONG FOOD AND BEVERAGE
COMPONENT WHEN YOU SEE SOME
OF THE DESIGNS THAT WE'VE
CREATED , YOU KNOW WE DO WANT
TO CREATE COMMUNITY SPACE.
THIS IS THE OTHER THING THAT
I'M EXCITED ABOUT WITH
EVERYBODY BEING HERE.
THIS IS YOUR PROJECT.
A LOT OF DEVELOPERS COME TO
TOWN, COME TO TOWN FROM OUTSIDE
AND THEY SAY OK, THIS IS WHAT
WE DO IN THE CITY EVENTUALLY
GETS THEIR PLANS.
THEY SAY OK, THIS IS WHAT I
WANT TO DO.
WE STARTED BY COMING TO THE
CITY SAYING WE WANT YOUR INPUT
FIRST.
WE WANT INPUT FROM THE
COMMUNITY.
WE WANT TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT
THIS BEING YOUR COMMUNITY SPACE
AND WHETHER THE CONCERNS
TONIGHT WAS WHERE ARE WE GOING
TO HAVE A BIG ENOUGH SPACE TO
HOUSE EVERYBODY?
WE SHOULDN'T HAVE THAT ISSUE.
WE SHOULD HAVE A PLACE THAT WE
CAN GO TO THE BIG EVENTS AND
HAVE BIG CONFERENCES OVER THERE
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE OVER ACTUALLY
SEVENTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF CONFERENCE SPACE.
IT'S A REALLY UNIQUE CONFERENCE
SPACE THAT'S FIFTY THOUSAND
IT'S GOT ONE CONTIGUOUS TYPE
OF AREA AND WE HAVE SOME OTHER
UNIQUE AREAS THAT WILL SHOW YOU
IN A MINUTE THE RENDERINGS
PROPRIETARY EVENTS AND AWARD
CEREMONIES.
THIS IS A REALLY UNIQUE
COMPONENT THROUGH SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED WE HAVE OUR OWN
PROPRIETARY EVENTS.
ONE IS THE SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
SPORTSPERSON OF THE YEAR AWARD.
HE PROBABLY THAT'S BEEN ONE
OF THE BIGGEST AWARDS THEY HAVE
A PROFESSIONAL SPORTS BUT WE'RE
TAKING THAT OUT TO HIGH SCHOOLS
SO FOR OUR RADIUS OF ANN ARBOR,
FOR EXAMPLE, TWO HUNDRED HIGH
SCHOOLS THAT ARE DOING SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED SPORTS PERSON
OF THE YEAR AWARDS INCLUDING
SOME SCHOLARSHIPS.
WELL, THOSE WILL CULMINATE
NIGHT HERE IN ARBOR FOR THOSE
HIGH SCHOOLS THAT COME HERE AND
EVERYBODY ELSE TO CELEBRATE
LET'S CALL IT 10 OF THEIR
GREATEST ATHLETES FOR VARIOUS
REASONS THEY ONLY TO BE THE
BEST AT WHAT THEY DO.
BUT THERE'S A STORY BEHIND THEM
EVERY AWARD IN THE SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED SPORTS PERSON
OF THE YEAR AWARD WITH SOME
KIND OF SCHOLARSHIP THAT ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY DIFFERENT
NIGHTS A YEAR WE HAVE PEOPLE
COMING FROM DIFFERENT TOWNS TO
EXPERIENCE ANN ARBOR.
WE HAVE OUR TEAM WORKS PROGRAM
.
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT WE DO
THAT ARE PROPRIETARY TO THE
BRAND FITNESS AND WELLNESS.
WE HAVE A VERY STRONG
DEDICATION TO HEALTH AND
WELLNESS AND FITNESS.
THIS PROPERTY WILL HAVE A VERY
NICE STATE OF THE ART HEALTH
AND WELLNESS FITNESS FACILITY
THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
AVAILABLE FOR PEOPLE TO HAVE
MEMBERSHIPS THERE LOCALLY SO
THEY CAN PARTAKE IN WHAT WE'VE
PUT TOGETHER UPSCALE FOOD
BEVERAGE OFFERINGS.
YOU KNOW ANN ARBOR IS A FOODIE
TOWN UNFORTUNATELY PROBABLY EAT
OUT TOO MUCH.
BUT YOU KNOW, I KNOW ALL THE
GREAT RESTAURANTS HERE AND THEN
SOME BUT WE WANT TO BRING IN
SOME GREAT FOOD AND BEVERAGE,
YOU KNOW, SOME UPSCALE TO
YOU'LL SEE OUR STADIUM WHICH IS
JUST A GREAT GATHERING PLACE
FOR FAMILIES WHICH WILL SHOW
YOU IN A SECOND STORYTELLING.
AS I MENTIONED BEFORE, WE HAVE
JUST ALMOST AN UNLIMITED
DATABASE OF FANTASTIC
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY THAT WE
CAN PUT WITHIN THE THE
FACILITIES TO REALLY BRING THE
STORY OF MICHIGAN ATHLETICS
EVENT HARBOR TO LIFE IN A VERY
UNIQUE SPACE.
YOU WE WERE MET WITH THE
COACHES OF ALL THE MAJOR TEAMS
AT UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
THEY'RE ECSTATIC BECAUSE
THEY'RE HAVING TO BRING IN
PLAYERS, RECRUIT PLAYERS AND
THEY LOVE TO BRING THEM INTO
THIS FACILITY WHERE THEY'RE
WALKING INTO THE HISTORY OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
YOU KNOW, THAT WOULD BE PART
OF IT.
NOT ALL JUST TO GIVE YOU A
QUICK EXAMPLE ON SOME OF THESE
IMAGES THAT WE REALLY LOVE AT
THE UNIVERSITY HAD DONE AND IF
YOU SEE THE TOP LEFT IMAGE
THAT'S WE CALL THE HALL
OF CHAMPIONS LIKE I MENTIONED
BEFORE, WE'RE TAKING AND
CREATING A SPACE WHEN YOU WALK
IN WHERE YOU SEE YOU KNOW,
WE'RE KIND OF REPRESENTING ALL
THESE FAMOUS PEOPLE THAT HAVE
COME THROUGH THIS TOWN THROUGH
THIS UNIVERSITY AND HIGHLIGHT
THEM.
SO YOU'RE WALKING INTO THE
HISTORY OF I SAID UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN IN ANN ARBOR.
YOU KNOW, AGAIN, THIS IS A
WORLD CLASS DESTINATION.
LET'S CELEBRATE THAT.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE WANT TO DO
JUST TO GET US A LITTLE
HIGHLIGHT SOME OF THE THINGS WE
DO THIS IS OUR TEAM PROGRAM
WHERE AGAIN WE CAN GO OUT TO A
THOUSAND DIFFERENT CORPORATE
COMPANIES AND SAY WE WANT TO
HOST A TEAM WORKS BUILDING
SESSION.
EMMITT SMITH IS ONE OF OUR
PARTNERS SHAQUILLE O'NEAL, TOM
BRADY WHERE WE CAN ACTUALLY
HOST EVENTS WHERE COMPANIES
WILL COME HERE AND HAVE
MOTIVATIONAL SPEAKING.
PLUS WE'LL SHOW YOU SOME OF OUR
FACILITIES WHERE THEY CAN
ACTUALLY DO PHYSICAL TEAM
BUILDING ACTIVITIES BECAUSE
OF THE BRAND.
WE'VE RECEIVED INCREDIBLE
RESPONSE FROM BOTH HIGH SCHOOLS
FOR THE UNIVERSITY.
THE SPORTS ILLUSTRATED SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSPERSON OF THE
YEAR AND THE TEAM WORKS
PROGRAMS.
>> YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I'VE BEEN PASSIONATE ABOUT
MY ENTIRE LIFE WITH MY FAMILY,
MY KIDS MYSELF IS YOU KNOW,
ATHLETICS AND YOU KNOW,
ACTIVITIES IF YOU LOOK ALL THE
STUDIES NINE OUT OF 10 PARENTS
WHOSE KIDS HAVE BEEN IN SPORTS
,YOU KNOW, HAVE BENEFITED IN
MANY, MANY DIFFERENT WAYS.
WE WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THAT.
WE ALSO WANT TO PROVIDE, YOU
KNOW, PROGRAMS OR WORK WITH
GROUPS THAT ARE DOING PROGRAMS
ALREADY IN THE COMMUNITY.
SPORTS RELATED PROGRAMS PROVIDE
OUR FACILITIES.
>> THIS IS A COMMUNITY FACILITY
.
AGAIN, JUST A LITTLE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED SPORTS PERSON
OF THE YEAR.
YOU KNOW, WE ARE AGAIN WE'RE
VERY EXCITED ABOUT THIS BECAUSE
IT REALLY DOES GET THE WORD OUT
TO THE ENTIRE SURROUND FOUR
HOUR RADIUS, FIVE HOUR RADIUS
THAT IS IN PLACE TO BE
ESPECIALLY WHEN WE HOLD OUR
PROPRIETARY EVENTS.
I JUST TELL YOU A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT COBBLESTONE IN OUR
PARTNER.
I MEAN PART OF WHAT WE'RE GONNA
DO TONIGHT TOO IS JUST KIND
OF TALK ABOUT OUR PARTNERS ARE
AND WHY WE ARE KIND OF BEST IN
CLASS AND WHAT WE'RE DOING.
NOTICE THAT YOUR FRIENDS, A
GOOD FRIEND AND YOU KNOW
THEY'VE BEEN INVOLVED IN
REFINANCING THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY, KNOW A LOT OF STUFF IN
THE CITY OF DETROIT HAS BEEN
EXTREMELY BENEFICIAL TO THE
CITY.
YOU KNOW, TWO POINT FOUR
BILLION AND THREE FINANCING
BONDS.
YOU KNOW WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT TONIGHT IS SOMETHING THAT
90 PERCENT OF THE CITIES ACROSS
THIS COUNTRY DO THIS STRUCTURE
IN ORDER TO BE ABLE TO
FACILITATE BUILDING A PROJECT
LIKE THIS, IT HAS TO HAVE SOME
KIND OF PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP
, YOU KNOW THAT YOU
INTRODUCE YOURSELF BUT THE
CROWD HI, I'M LENA CHU.
>> I AM AN ARCHITECT AND
PRINCIPAL AT LAMAR JOHNSON
COLLABORATIVE.
I'M ALSO IN ANN ARBOR NATIVE.
I MOVED HERE IN THE SECOND
GRADE, WENT THROUGH THE ENTIRE
PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM OVER AT
AND A GRADUATE OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ARCHITECTURE SCHOOL.
SO NEEDLESS TO SAY IT'S A FULL
CIRCLE MOMENT FOR ME.
I COULD NOT BE MORE EXCITED TO
COME BACK HERE AND BE A PART
OF THIS PROJECT TEAM AND REALLY
MAKE SURE THIS PROJECT HAS AN
IMPACT TO THIS COMMUNITY.
>> OH, LET ME GO BACK AND TELL
YOU ABOUT OUR JOHNSON
COLLABORATIVE.
I'M HERE WITH MY PARTNER LOUIS
VARVATOS.
WE REPRESENT A MUCH LARGER TEAM
BEHIND THIS PROJECT.
IT'S NOT JUST US.
IT CAN'T BE DONE WITH
INDIVIDUALS.
WE HAVE A LARGE TEAM AT LGC.
WE HAVE OVER FIVE OFFICES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THE TWO OF US ARE BASED TO
CHICAGO.
WE HAVE OVER ONE HUNDRED THREE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY EMPLOYEES
ACROSS THOSE OFFICES ARE HAVE
THE ABILITY TO DELIVER A
DIVERSE RANGE OF PROJECT TYPES
ESPECIALLY UNIQUE TO THIS
PROJECT WITH SO MANY DIFFERENT
ASSETS AND EXPERTIZE WE REALLY
ARE WELL SUITED FOR THIS.
WE'VE WON ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
DESIGN AWARDS AND NINETY FIVE
OF WHICH ARE CURRENTLY
CERTIFIED SUSTAINABLE PROJECT.
SO YOU'VE HEARD A LOT FROM
CHRIS ABOUT THE VISION THE
BRAND AND HOW THAT INFLUENCES
THE HOTEL.
BUT PART OF OUR JOB ALSO AS
ARCHITECTS IS REALLY HOW DO WE
BRING THAT VISION HOME TO THE
COMMUNITY AND MAKE SURE THIS
PROJECT REALLY EMBODIES THAT.
SO BECAUSE WE'RE ONLY AT THE
BEGINNING THIS IS A PROPOSED
PROJECT CONCEPT.
THIS IS NOT A FINALIZED DESIGN.
SO ALL THE RENDERINGS THAT YOU
SEE ARE, YOU KNOW, THE
POTENTIAL OF WHAT IT COULD BE.
>> IT'S KIND OF OUR DREAM
INSIDE BUT REALLY WHAT WE WHAT
WE WANTED TO DO IS TAKE A STEP
BACK AND SHARE THE WHY BEHIND
THE DESIGN DRIVERS AND USE
THOSE AS GUIDING PRINCIPLES.
SO THE FOLLOWING SLIDES ARE OUR
PROJECTS COMMITMENT, OUR
PROJECT TEAM'S COMMITMENT TO
THE COMMUNITY INTO ANN ARBOR.
>> SO IT'S IMPORTANT TO READ
THIS ONE.
I'M NOT GOING TO READ THEM ALL
VERBATIM BUT FIRST AND FOREMOST
WE WANT THIS PROJECT TO BE
PEOPLE DRIVEN NEIGHBORHOOD
FOCUS PROJECT THAT EMBODIES
COMMUNITY COLLABORATION AND
PARTNERSHIP.
SO THIS PROJECT IS MORE THAN
JUST A BUILDING.
WHAT HAPPENS BEYOND THAT
BUILDING, BEYOND US WALLS WHICH
IS IT IS A MANTRA OF OUR
COMPANY AND WE REALLY WANT TO
PARTNER WITH THE COMMUNITY SO
THAT WE CAN MAKE AN IMPACT IN
THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE
OPERATE.
>> SO TRULY WE WANT THE FINAL
DESIGN TO EMBODY THAT WE HAVE A
COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY.
WE WE ARE COMMITTED TO MAKE
THIS ENVIRONMENTAL
ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE
PROJECT.
WE'RE GOING TO USE HIGH
PERFORMANCE BUILDING DESIGN.
WE'LL BE RESPONSIBLE WITH OUR
MATERIAL SELECTIONS.
WE'RE AIMING TO GO FOR LEED
GOLD.
THIS IS A BROWNFIELD SITE THAT
WE PLAN TO REMEDIATE.
WE WANT TO GO ALL ELECTRIC
EXCEPT FOR GAS AT THE FOOD AND
BEVERAGE RESTAURANT IN LGC, OUR
FIRM HAS SIGNED THE AMERICAN
INSTITUTE ARCHITECTS TWENTY
THIRTY PLEDGE WHICH IS A
CLIMATE IT'S A IT'S A
ACTIONABLE CLIMATE STRATEGY TO
REACH NET ZERO EMISSIONS IN THE
BUILT ENVIRONMENT.
SO IN THE SAME SPIRIT AS A TWO
ZERO PLAN AS WELL.
WE ALL KNOW THAT ANN ARBOR IS
AN ARTS AND CULTURAL
DESTINATION.
WE HAVE AMAZING MUSEUMS,
BOOKSTORES, INDEPENDENT
BOOKSTORES AND ARTS AND SO WE
WANT THIS PROJECT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AND ONE OF THE
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE CAN
DO TO FOSTER COMMUNITY
COLLABORATION IN THE ARTS IS TO
HAVE A VERY DIRECT COMPETITION.
THIS IS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
IS A BIG PASSION OF MINE AS
I'VE TAKEN MY DAUGHTERS THROUGH
THROUGH THE DISAPPEARING DOORS
THROUGH ANN ARBOR, WE WILL
DEMONSTRATE A COMMITMENT TO
PUBLIC ART.
>> WE HAVE OPPORTUNITIES TO CAN
YOU HEAR ME NOW?
>> SORRY.
SO WE WILL HAVE A COMMITMENT TO
PUBLIC ART.
WE HAVE HAVE HAD CONVERSATIONS
AND ARE COMMITTED TO REALLY
MAKING SURE WE INTEGRATE ART
INTO THIS PROJECT AND SO IT'S
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE CULTURE.
AND FINALLY WE WANT TO TAKE WE
WANT TO REIMAGINE THE VOID THAT
CURRENTLY IS IN THIS PARKING
LOT AND CREATE A DESTINATION
NOT ONLY FOR VISITORS BUT FOR
LOCALS AND REALLY CREATE AN
EXPERIENCE THAT EXTENDS THE
CORE OF THAT DOWNTOWN SO CALLED
THE FANCY SLIDES.
>> SO IT'S INTERESTING WHEN WE
STARTED TO LOOK AT LOCATIONS WE
FIRST I MEAN LITERALLY THE
FIRST DAY THAT WE SAID HEY, WE
SHOULD BE IN AN HOUR, WE
STARTED DRIVING AROUND LOOKING
AND I GO DOWNTOWN TO DOWNTOWN A
LOT TO GO TO RESTAURANTS AND
HOW MANY TIMES YOU LOOK AT THIS
SPACE AT THIS SITE THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT, IT REALLY IS
JUST A GIANT VOID.
THERE IS NO CONNECTION WITH THE
COMMUNITY.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT HAPPENS
THERE.
THERE'S NO REAL PEDESTRIAN
TRAFFIC.
IT'S JUST A 60 FOOT PARKING LOT
.
EXACTLY.
YEAH.
AND IT'S A PARKING LOT AND I
DON'T KNOW IF ANYBODY'S A BIG
FAN OF SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT OF ASPHALT.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE WE'RE NOT YOU
KNOW, ANY PARKING BUT THANK YOU
.
YEAH.
OH EVERYONE YOU ARE PARKING.
YEAH I DO.
WE ACTUALLY WANT MORE PARKING
FOR NOW.
NO NO WE DON'T PLAN TO HAVE AN
EYESORE.
>> WELL YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE
NEW DESIGN YET AND THAT'S WHY
YOU'RE HERE TONIGHT A BIG BLOCK
WHY THAT'S THE PARKING SO BUT I
WANT TO SHOW YOU SOME STUFF
AGAIN.
I APPRECIATE IT.
ONE OF THE GREAT THINGS ABOUT
COMMUNITY MEETINGS LIKE THIS IS
WE ALL HAVE OPINIONS AND WE
APPRECIATE THOSE OPINIONS AND
WE WANT TO TAKE THOSE INTO
CONSIDERATION BECAUSE WE WANT
TO DESIGN SOMETHING THAT'S
IMPORTANT.
BUT I THINK THAT YOU SEE THIS
YOU'RE GOING TO REALLY LIKE IT.
>> SO YEAH, I SAW WELL, I'M
GOING TO TELL YOU WHAT I THINK
IT IS WE HAVE SOME ORDER TO
FINISH AND THEN I WILL COME UP
AND THEN WE'LL DO A Q&A.
>> SO HERE'S WHAT I SEE WHEN I
WALK BY HERE TONIGHT.
THAT'S A BIG PARKING LOT.
ALL RIGHT.
MAYBE YOU'RE A BIG FAN
OF PARKING LOTS.
IT'S A BIG PARKING.
YOU LOOK AT THIS DESIGN.
I SEE A COMMUNITY.
I SEE A NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE'VE ACTUALLY BROUGHT THIS
GIANT PARKING LOT THAT HAS
NOTHING THERE.
WE CREATED A COMMUNITY.
WE'VE HELPED BRING THE CITY
TOGETHER
BLOCKS THE WHAT DO YOU
WELL, RIGHT NOW WE FACE A
PARKING LOT FACING AN SO WHAT
WE WANT TO DO WITH THAT ALLEY
WHEN WE HAVE OUR BUILDING IS WE
WANT TO CREATE A PEDESTRIAN
AREA WHERE WE WOULD LIKE TO
WORK WITH THE ARTS DISTRICT TO
CREATE MORE MURALS ALONG THE
ALLEY AND LIGHTED AT NIGHT SO
YOU CAN HAVE A PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY AREA BECAUSE RIGHT NOW
YOU DON'T YOU'RE WALKING BY A
BIG PARKING LOT AT NIGHT.
IT'S NOT THAT YOU KNOW THAT
IT'S NOT SAFE BUT THE FACT IS
WE CAN CREATE SOMETHING VERY
NICE HERE.
THIS IS A COMMUNITY AREA THAT
WE CAN BRING PEOPLE INTO THE
FAMILIES COME AND YOU'LL SEE
THAT SHORTLY.
>> THAT'S WHEN WE REALLY THINK
THIS CAN BE AN ANCHOR AT THE
DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES CALL
OUT CORNER CORNER SITES WHICH
WE HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY RIGHT
HERE AT WILLIAMS AND ASHLEY TO
CREATE AN ARCHITECTURAL GATEWAY
IN WHICH WE REALLY BELIEVE THIS
PROJECT CAN BE THAT GATEWAY TO
THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT
ESPECIALLY THE SITE SLOPES DOWN
TOWARDS THE RAILROAD TRACKS.
THIS IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO
ACCOMPLISH THAT SO QUICKLY TO
GO OVER THE PROGRAMING AGAIN
VERY CONCEPTUAL AT THIS POINT
THE PROPOSED PROJECT STARTING
FROM THE TOWER HALF OF THE
TOWER, THE UPPER HALF BLUE IS
REPRESENTED AS RESIDENTIAL AND
THEN THE OTHER HALF OUR HOTELS
THAT SITS ON A SHARED OUTDOOR
PODIUM THAT WILL ALSO BE
INVITED FOR YOU'LL SEE SOME
RENDERINGS COMING UP NEXT TO
HAVE SOME FOOD, A BEVERAGE AND
EXPERIENCED SPACES OUTSIDE
FOLLOWED BY FOUR FLOORS
OF PARKING.
WE ARE REPLACING THE PARKING
THAT IS ON SITE NOW AND
CREATING MORE THAT IS BOOKENDED
BY A BASKETBALL COURT WHICH
WILL FOLLOW WITH THAT AS WELL
BELOW THE PARKING YOU'LL SEE
THAT WE POSITION THE
CONFERENCING THAT IS WELL
SUITED AND SIZED APPROPRIATELY
FOR THIS SITE IN COORDINATION
OF WHAT WE'VE UNDERSTAND THE
NEEDS OF THE CITY ARE WHICH WE
THINK IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY.
THEN NEXT TO THE GROUND FLOOR
WE HAVE THAT ANCHORED AT THIS
CORNER SITE AGAIN WITH THE
FIELD OF DREAMS HIGH STADIUM
THAT WE WILL SHOW RIGHT HERE.
SO IN CONCEPT SO ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT YOU KNOW, I DON'T
KNOW ANYBODY HERE THAT HAS KIDS
OUR KIDS ARE GROWN BUT I'VE HAD
THREE KIDS AND YOU KNOW THIS
TIME OF YEAR WE'RE ALWAYS
LOOKING FOR PLACES TO GO.
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR A PLACE YOU
CAN GO AND HAVE COMMUNITY
SPACE.
YOU HAVE TO LET THE KIDS RUN
AROUND AND DO SOMETHING WITH
WHAT WE'RE CREATING.
YOU SAW IN THAT LAST SLIDE THAT
GROUND UP IS WHAT WE CALL THE
IT'S THE FIELD OF DREAMS SUCH
WE CALL YOU CAN WE COME IN
GIANT FOOD HALL.
WE WANT TO CELEBRATE LOCAL
CHEFS GIVE LOCAL CHEFS THE
ABILITY TO COME IN, HAVE OWN
MICRO RESTAURANTS.
WE HAVE TO HAVE EVENTS THERE.
WE CAN HAVE BIRTHDAY PARTIES
THERE.
YOU KNOW, WHETHER IT'S NICE,
WHETHER WE CAN ALL THE DOORS UP
AND YOU KNOW, HAVE THIS GREAT
COMMUNITY SPACE WHEN IT'S COLD
WEATHER LIKE THIS THE DOOR SHUT
AND WE HAVE A BIG PLACE FOR
PEOPLE TO ACTUALLY COME AND
FAMILIES AND DINE AND HAD THEIR
KIDS RUN AROUND AND YOU KNOW,
HAVE AN ACTUAL COMMUNITY SPACE
THAT'S A SHOW YOU'RE RENDERING.
LIKE DENHA SAID, THESE ARE ALL
CONCEPTUAL AND PART OF THE
REASON THEY'RE CONCEPTUAL AT
THIS POINT BECAUSE WE LIKE THE
COMMUNITY'S INPUT GIVES YOU
JUST AGAIN THIS IS JUST A QUICK
RENDERING BUT WE'LL SHOW YOU
IT'S A FOOD HALL, YOU KNOW,
EVENTS AREA BIRTHDAY PARTIES,
WATCH PARTIES, YOU KNOW, ALL
KINDS OF THINGS THAT YOU CAN DO
WITH THE SPACE.
AGAIN, I STARTED THINKING ABOUT
ALL THE BENEFITS, ALL THE
BENEFITS I MEAN HUNDREDS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN THIS
COMMUNITY FOR WHAT WE'RE DOING
AND CREATING A COMMUNITY SPACE
HERE ON A BROWNFIELD SITE.
OTHER UNDERSTAND WHAT
BROWNFIELD SITE IS THAT SITE
NEEDS TO BE REMEDIATED.
THERE COULD BE SOME TOXIC
THINGS THERE THAT NEED TO BE
REMOVED BECAUSE THERE IS AN OLD
BUILDING AT ONE TIME WE'RE
GOING TO TAKE THAT AND CREATE A
SPACE FOR THE COMMUNITY.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
WHAT WE'RE DOING WITH THE SPACE
THEMSELVES.
THIS CAN ALSO BE USED FOR
CONFERENCE SPACE.
YOU KNOW, SO I THINK WHAT ABOUT
EIGHT THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
ROUGHLY?
>> YEAH, THIS THIS IMAGE REALLY
IS ABOUT KIND OF THE POTENTIAL
OF AN INDOOR OUTDOOR EXPERIENCE
AND HOW THESE HOW THE EXTERIOR
WALL CAN OPEN UP AND REALLY
ENGAGE THE PEDESTRIANS ON THE
SIDEWALK.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WILL BE
GREAT FEEDBACK THAT WE LOVE TO
HEAR FROM THE COMMUNITY IS HOW
YOU THINK THE SPACE COULD BE
USED.
ARE THERE BETTER IDEAS THAT
WE'RE NOT THINKING OF THAT
WE'RE OPEN TO AS WE'RE EARLY ON
IN AND HOW WE POSITION THIS AS
IT IS AT THE CORNER AND IN A
PRIME OPPORTUNITY?
>> SO LOOKING AT THIS FROM A
MASSING STANDPOINT, WE WANTED
TO FOCUS HERE ON THE ENTRY SO
THE ENTRY IS MID BLOCK OFF
OF ACTUALLY THIS IS HOW YOU
ARRIVE AND GET DROPPED OFF AS A
GUEST FOR THE HOTEL AND IF YOU
LIVE IN THE RESIDENTIAL UNITS
YOU WOULD ALSO ACCESS THIS WAY.
THIS IS ALSO HOW YOU GET TO THE
RAMP TO GET TO THE PARKING
GARAGE.
>> IT'S AN EXAMPLE OF KIND
OF OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP.
CHRIS HAS HAD SOME
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE ART
CENTER WHICH IS WHERE I HAD MY
VERY FIRST ART CLASS WHEN I WAS
SEVEN YEARS OLD.
I UNDERSTAND THAT DROPOFFS FOR
SUMMER CAMPS HAPPEN HERE IN THE
EXISTING PARKING.
>> SO THAT'S THAT'S FEEDBACK WE
LOVE TO HEAR AND WE LOVE TO TO
KIND OF ACCOMMODATE OUR PROJECT
WITH SO WE WOULD REWORK THE THE
BRICK WALL THAT YOU SEE HERE
AND ALLOW FOR THE ART CENTER TO
USE A COVER DROP OFF FOR THEIR
STUDENTS IN THE SUMMER.
>> THIS IS ALSO AN OPPORTUNITY
WE HAVE ARTWORK IN THE ALLEY
AND IN ADDITION TO MAYBE SOME
SPACES UP ABOVE SO ABOUT THE
KOSHARY YOU'LL SEE THE
CONFERENCE CENTER WHICH IS AS
YOU CAN SEE MY MOUSE WHICH
APPROPRIATELY SIZED CONFERENCE
CENTER THAT'S FLEXIBLE MEETING
SPACES, DIFFERENT SIZES AND
TYPES TO MEET THE COMMUNITY'S
NEEDS IN ADDITION ABOVE THAT
YOU'LL SEE THE PARKING WITH A
ROOF DECK AND THE TOWER ABOVE
AT THE END RIGHT HERE WILL GET
INTO THIS NEXT SLIDE.
>> WELL, WE'RE REALLY
HIGHLIGHTING THE POTENTIAL FOR
CHANGING THE PEDESTRIAN
EXPERIENCE AS IT IS EXISTING
AND CREATING A STREET EDGE THAT
PROVIDES THE PEDESTRIAN
ACTIVITY INSIDE SO THE GROUND
FLOOR WHICH THE THE DOWNTOWN
STANDARDS ENCOURAGE TO BE
HIGHLY TRANSPARENT.
>> WE THINK WE'RE ACHIEVING
WITH LOOKING AT ALL THE
ACTIVITY THAT'S COMING THROUGH
HERE FROM THE CONFERENCE CENTER
COUNTRY BEING SEPARATE FROM THE
HOTEL ACCESS TO THE FOOD,
BEVERAGE, RETAIL AND
ENTERTAINMENT INTO THE STADIUM
.
SO SHARING A LITTLE BIT
OF INSPIRATION.
LET ME GO BACK ONE SIDE REALLY
QUICK.
I WANT TO NOTE HERE THAT THE
BASKETBALL COURT IS ABOVE THE
STADIUM AT THE CORNER.
>> YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT YOU KNOW, UNFORTUNATELY
AGAIN THIS IS WHY WE'RE HERE
TONIGHT IS TO TALK ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, THE APPROPRIATE
INFORMATION.
ONE OF THE FIRST RENDERINGS
THAT CAME OUT MADE IT LOOK LIKE
A BIG BUILDING.
WHAT WE REALLY DID WAS TRY TO
CREATE A DID YOU SEE A GREEN
SPACE ON TOP WE'VE GOT WHAT,
THIRTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF GREEN SPACE ON TOP OF THIS
BUILDING WE TRY TO CREATE A
UPSTAIR A PARK LIKE ATMOSPHERE.
IT'S A LOT PRETTIER.
YOU KNOW, BUILDINGS I'VE SEEN
THEY'RE GOING UP THERE'S A LOT
BUT WE'VE CREATED SO YOU'RE
COMING DOWN HERE ON DRIVE
YOU'RE GOING TO SEE A BUILDING
WITH ALL THE GREEN SPACE
BECAUSE THAT'S KIND OF THE I
LOVE YOU GOING TO SEE IT'S
GOING TO BE VERY PRETTY
BUILDING.
IT'S GOING TO BE A GREAT
ADDITION TO DOWNTOWN AGAIN FOR
THOSE THAT SEEM TO REALLY LOVE
PARKING LOTS LIKE THIS REALLY
DOES TIE IN DOWNTOWN SO MUCH
BETTER AS A BEAUTIFUL EXAMPLE
OF A WORLD CLASS CITY.
>> SO LOOK AT THIS BASKETBALL
COURT.
YOU WOULD SAY WHY IS THAT NOT
AT THE GROUND?
BUT WE HAVE SOME REASONINGS AT
OUR FIRM I WORK AT WE THIS IS A
PROJECT WE DID THAT HIGHLY
SUCCESSFUL IN THE CITY
OF CHICAGO.
IT IS A RENTABLE BOOKABLE SPACE
THAT HAS CONNECTED TO AN
OUTDOOR ROOFTOP WHICH WE SERVE
AS A GREAT PRECEDENT.
THESE RENDERINGS REPRESENT THE
POTENTIAL FOR OUR PROJECT.
THIS COULD BE USED AS A
COMMUNITY SPACE TO HOST SUMMER
CAMPS TO SUPPLEMENT AND HE
NEEDS A PARK DISTRICT HAS WITH
REC HAVING A HIGH SCHOOL
TOURNAMENT EVEN HAVING TEAMS
COME THROUGH AND DO WALKTHROUGH
BEFORE GAMES HERE.
NICE USE OF THE BIG HOUSE
BEYOND THE TREE CANOPIES OF ANN
ARBOR AND THEN THE SAME SPACE I
CLICKED TOO FAST THE SAME SPACE
BEING FLEXIBLE CAN ALSO BE USED
AT NIGHT TO BE BOOKED FOR
PRIVATE EVENTS WHETHER IT'S A
WEDDING OR RECEPTION OR A
LECTURE, A SIMPLE CHANGE TO
ADDING DOWN CARPET TILES WHICH
IS WHAT HAPPENS IN CHICAGO
REALLY ELEVATES AND CHANGES THE
SPACE AND THE OPPORTUNITY ABOVE
THE BASKETBALL COURT WE HAVE A
DESTINATION FINE DINING
RESTAURANT WITH INDOOR AND
OUTDOOR DINING THAT THE PUBLIC
CAN GET TO COVER THIS EARLIER
BUT OUR COMMITMENTS IS TO HELP
THE WELLNESS AND FITNESS WE ARE
CREATING KIND OF A STATE OF THE
ART, HEALTH, WELLNESS AND
FITNESS FACILITY AGAIN THAT
WILL BE OPEN FOR THE COMMUNITY
TO HAVE MEMBERSHIPS THERE.
IT'S GOING TO BE A FANTASTIC
SPACE AGAIN WITH INDOOR OUTDOOR
PLACES.
TRAINOR'S THE BASKETBALL COURT
A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT AMENITIES
ASSOCIATED WITH THIS.
>> I FITS THAT THIS IS A VIEW
THAT OUTDOOR OUTSIDE DECK NEXT
TO THE PLACE WITH THE
RESTAURANT BEYOND AND THEN
HOPEFULLY THIS CAN WORK.
IT'S HARD TO UNDERSTAND THE
CONTEXT OF THE PROJECTS OR
THESE RENDERINGS.
SO WE WANTED TO SHOW A VIDEO
LOOKING NORTH REALLY
EMPHASIZING THIS CORNER OF THE
ESSI STADIUM, A FIELD OF DREAMS
ON THE GROUND FLOOR MOVING UP
TO THE OUTDOOR ROOF DECK AND
YOU SEE THE BASKETBALL COURT
AND ABOVE THAT I FIND ADDING
OUTDOOR RESTAURANT ADJACENT TO
THAT EXACT FIT DECK AND OUTDOOR
TURF AREA.
>> AND AS THIS MOVES WE WERE
JOKING WE SHOULD HAVE PLAYED
MUSIC TO THIS AND THEN ALSO THE
ABLE TO MAYBE YOU DON'T WANT TO
BE PART OF THE DINING OR AN
EXERCISE AND JUST REALLY WANT
TO ENJOY THE OUTDOORS.
YOU CAN COME TO THE NORTH SIDE
HERE AND HAVE THIS REALLY TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THE ROOFTOP LEVEL
EIGHT AGAIN WHAT YOU'RE SEEING
HERE IS JUST PROPOSED VERY
EARLY IN CONCEPT BUT A WAY TO
GET THE IDEA ACROSS OF OF THE
GREAT POTENTIAL PROJECT.
>> SO THANK YOU
FOR THE TOWER
THE TOWER THE TOP HALF WILL BE
RESIDENTIAL IN THE BOTTOM HALF
WILL BE HOTEL.
YOU DESIGN A LITTLE BIT LATER.
SO YES, THE CONDOS WILL BE
DESIGN.
>> OH YEAH.
THIS IS DENHA FOR BUILDINGS AS
SEE THAT WILL ENCOMPASS THE
RESIDENTIAL AND HOTEL.
YEAH THERE WILL BE GOES ABOVE
THAT THAT'S BEFORE GOING.
YES.
DO YOU KNOW ANY ROOM CAN WE CAN
WE HOLD ONE Q&A BECAUSE WE GOT
ONE MORE PRESENTER WHO HASN'T
COME UP YET SO WE'RE GOING TO
JUST QUICKLY TELL YOU THE TRUTH
WHEN OUR PARTNERS CARPATI HI MY
NAME IS THE PARTY I'M THE
PRESIDENT OF DESTINATION AND
HEAR ME NOW.
MY NAME IS DEV PETHICK.
I'M THE PRESIDENT
OF DESTINATION DEVELOPMENT FOR
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED HOTELS AND
RESORTS.
PREVIOUS TO THIS BY WAY
OF BACKGROUND, I FOUNDED A
COMPANY CALLED THE SPORTS
FACILITIES ADVISORY SPORTS
FACILITIES COMPANIES IS
CURRENTLY THE LARGEST OPERATOR
OF COMMUNITY BASED YOUTH AND
AMATEUR TOURNAMENT STYLE AND
COMMUNITY RECREATION VENUES IN
THE COUNTRY.
WE ALSO OPERATE A NUMBER
OF AMPHITHEATERS AND OTHER
VENUES THAT SERVE AS
DESTINATIONS.
THAT FIRM WILL SERVE 40 MILLION
VISITS THIS YEAR AND WE ARE THE
ONLY STRATEGIC PARTNER TO THE
INTERNATIONAL CITY MANAGERS
ASSOCIATION BECAUSE WE'VE DONE
A GREAT JOB OF PARTNERING
COMMUNITIES TO CREATE
DESTINATIONS THAT ELEVATE AND
IMPROVE THE ECONOMY WHILE ALSO
IMPROVING QUALITY OF LIFE FOR
CITIZENS.
>> I I HAD NOT THOUGHT WHEN I
RETIRED FROM MY SEAT THERE AND
JOINED THE BOARD THAT I WOULD
EVER WORK AGAIN.
BUT WHEN CHRISTOPHER APPROACHED
ME, THIS VISIONARY LEADER WHO'S
DONE SO MANY GREAT THINGS I
COULDN'T RESIST.
AND SO WHAT WE WILL DO HERE
UNLIKE ANY HOTEL YOU HAVE EVER
HEARD OF IN YOUR LIFE BESIDES
RAND ALLOWS US TO CREATE EVENTS
WITH PARTNERS SIMILAR TO WHAT
WE DID IN MY PREVIOUS FIRM SO
HERE IN ANN ARBOR WILL HAVE A
SPORTS MEDICINE CONFERENCE
SERIES.
IT CAN BE AN ANNUAL EVENT THE
SPORTS MEDICINE CONFERENCE, OUR
ARTS FESTIVALS WILL BE IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE ARTS
COMMUNITY HERE NOT CREATED FOR
IT BUT CREATED BY IT WHERE IT
HAS THE OPPORTUNITY TO OWN
THOSE THOSE EVENTS.
THE SAME WITH OUR SPORTS PERSON
OF THE YEAR.
THE STAKEHOLDERS IN THAT ARE
EVERYTHING.
AND SO THE NET RESULT OF ALL
OF THIS MY TEAMS THAT I'M
PUTTING IN PLACE WILL BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR DELIVERING UPON
THESE PROMISES AND THE NET
RESULT OF THAT AT A RELATIVELY
CONSERVATIVE FORECAST BASED
UPON THE MODEL YOU'VE SEEN AND
THE OCCUPANCY RATES THAT ARE
THAT ARE INDICATED BY BY
RESEARCH AND STUDY FOR US AND
THE USE OF THIS VENUE IS TWO
HUNDRED AND FORTY MILLION
DOLLARS IN TAX REVENUES TO THE
CITY OVER THE LIFE OF THIS
PROJECT PLUS THE ONGOING LEASE
PAYMENTS FOR THE LAND.
TO BE CLEAR, YOU'RE NOT GIVING
UP THE LAND.
THE LAND IS YOURS.
IT'S BEING LEASED AND SO IT
PRODUCES MORE REVENUE IN OUR
MODEL THAN DOES TODAY AND JUST
THE LEASE IT PRODUCES MORE
PARKING THAN IT DOES TODAY AND
JUST THE LEASE IT PROVIDES AN
ANSWER TO SOME OF YOUR DEMAND,
YOUR NEEDS AROUND CONFERENCE
SPACE.
IT PROVIDES AN ANSWER TO SOME
OF THE GATHERING SPACE NEEDS
THAT YOU HAVE AND IT CREATES
OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUR
ORGANIZATIONS LOCALLY TO
COLLABORATE IN WAYS THAT ARE
PROBABLY UNBELIEVABLE FOR SOME
OF YOU.
I SUSPECT WHEN YOU'RE USED TO
LOOKING AT THAT LOT YOU THINK
THAT'S WHAT IT IS.
I THINK WE'RE OFFERING AN
OPPORTUNITY TO THINK IN A SORT
OF VISIONARY WAY AND A VERY
DIFFERENT WAY THAN ANOTHER
CONFERENCE OR HOTEL OR OTHER
BRAND MIGHT DO BECAUSE THERE IS
NO OTHER BRAND IN THE
MARKETPLACE THAT CAN OWN COHON
EIGHT EVENTS IN THIS WAY YOU
DON'T FIND MARRIOTT CREATING A
SPORTS PERSON THE YEAR AWARD.
YOU DON'T FIND ANY OF THE OTHER
BRANDS DOING THIS AND SO I'LL
LEAVE IT TO YOU TO BECAUSE ALL
OF THIS MATERIAL IS GOING TO BE
AVAILABLE AFTER WE'RE HERE.
BUT IF YOU WERE TO RESEARCH WHO
OUR TEAM IS, THE TEAM THAT
CHRIS HAS ASSEMBLED, I THINK
YOU'LL FIND THAT WE'RE ALL
QUITE CREDIBLE THAT WE'VE
ACTUALLY DONE WHAT WE SAY WE'RE
GOING TO DO, THAT WE'VE BEEN
TRUSTWORTHY PARTNERS, THAT THE
PROMISES WE MAKE WE FULFILL ON
MY TEAM'S JOB UNDER CHRIS IS TO
DO EXACTLY THAT.
THERE'S STILL A LOT
OF LISTENING AHEAD.
THERE'S STILL A LOT OF WORK TO
DONE.
NO DECISION HAS BEEN MADE.
I PROPOSAL HAS BEEN PUT FORTH
WE HOPE IN ALL SINCERITY THAT
IT'S A PROPOSAL THAT MOST
OF YOU EMBRACE AND SOME OF YOU
WE HOPE HAVE CHANGED YOUR MIND
TONIGHT BECAUSE THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF THIS CONCEPTION OUT
THERE AND THEN OTHERS WE
ABSOLUTELY RECOGNIZE IT'S YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD, IT'S YOUR PLACE
YOU MAY NEVER HAVE YOUR MIND
CHANGED WE HOPE UNTIL YOU'RE IN
ONE OF OUR EVENTS UNTIL WE GET
TO HOST
YOU.
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
FOR ALLOWING THE CONVERSATION.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE TO Q&A.
I KNOW THERE'S A LOT OF EMOTION
AND ENERGY AROUND ANYTHING LIKE
THIS.
I WOULD INVITE THAT WE COULD
ALL TRY TO BE CIVIL IN THAT
PROCESS EVEN IF THERE IS A LOT
OF EMOTION.
AND SO WE'LL LOOK FORWARD TO
NOW MOVING INTO THE QUESTION
AND ANSWER PERIOD WITH YOU.
THANK YOU.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO FORMALLY
MOVE OURSELVES SOMEWHERE ELSE
NOT NOT YET GET THANK YOU.
>> I WANT TO BRING UP BRETT
LEONARD FROM OUR BUILDING
DEPARTMENT AND HE'S GOT A
PRESENTATION TO GIVE
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS BALLARAT.
I'M THE PLANNING MANAGER FOR
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR COORDINATING,
CONDUCTING AND COMPLETING THE
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS AND
I THINK I'M HERE BECAUSE THIS
UNIQUE EXPERIENCE THAT YOU HAVE
MAYBE NOT SEEN HAPPEN A LOT IN
THE CITY WHERE THE CITY IS
ACTIVELY PARTNERING WITH ONE
OF A PROPERTY THAT'S BEEN UNDER
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP SO IT'S A
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP.
SO I LIKE TO TALK TO YOU A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHAT YOU CAN
EXPECT FROM THE PROCESS AS A
PETITION FOR DEVELOPMENT ON THE
SITE MOVES FORWARD EVEN DESPITE
ANY TRANSACTIONAL RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE CITY AND THIS THIS
DEVELOPMENT, IT WILL STILL BE
SUBJECT TO ALL THE REQUIREMENTS
,ORDINANCES, PROCESSES THAT
ANY DEVELOPMENT WOULD REQUIRE.
AND SO THAT PROCESS IS
INDEPENDENT OF ANY QUESTION
THAT THE CITY HAS WILL WILL
CONSIDER FROM A TRANSACTIONAL
PERSPECTIVE ON PROPERTY ITSELF.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO WALK
THROUGH QUICKLY WHAT A
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS WE
WOULD ANTICIPATE WILL LOOK LIKE
FOR THIS PROCESS.
SO YOU CAN UNDERSTAND AND BE
MINDFUL OF WHAT'S COMING.
SO I'M GOING TO BREAK IT INTO
THREE PHASES TO BE SIMPLE THE
FIRST PHASE OF THE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS IS WHAT I'M GOING TO
CALL PRE SUBMISSION WORK BASED
ON THIS PROJECT LOCATION.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A COUPLE
OF ASPECTS OF THAT.
ONE IS THAT BASED ON THE
PROJECT ATTRIBUTES THAT ARE
BEING PROPOSED IN CONCEPT AT
THIS TIME A CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION MEETING WILL BE
REQUIRED.
SO THAT'S GOING TO MEAN IS IN
ADDITION TO THIS MEETING THAT
IS THAT THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
HAS INITIATED THERE WILL BE
ANOTHER MEETING HOSTED BY THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM INVITING
PROPERTY OWNERS AND RESIDENTS
WITHIN A THOUSAND FEET OF THIS
PROPERTY TO PROVIDE ANOTHER
EARLY LOOK AT THIS PROPOSAL
THAT HAPPENS BEFORE ANYTHING IS
SUBMITTED TO THE CITY FOR
CONSIDERATION BECAUSE OF ITS
LOCATION.
ALSO IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT
YOU HEARD REFERENCE FROM THE
ARCHITECTURAL TEAM THAT THIS
PROJECT IS CONSIDERING
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE CITY'S
DESIGN DOWNTOWN DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
THIS PROJECT WILL GO TO OUR
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD.
THIS IS A CONSULTING BOARD
APPOINTED BY THE CITY THAT
APPLIES THOSE ADOPTED DESIGN
CONSIDERATIONS TO PROJECTS IN
OUR DOWNTOWN.
THIS IS JUST A CONSULTATION.
IT'S NOT REQUIRED BUT IT'S A
REQUIRED STEP TO HAVE THAT
DIALOG WITH THAT BOARD AND
CARRY THE OUTCOMES OF THAT
CONVERSATION FORWARD WITH ANY
REVIEW OF THE PROPOSED PROPOSAL
.
SO THE THE THE MEAT OF REVIEW
PROCESSES THE SITE PLAN REVIEW
PROCESS THAT'S WHERE I PLAN
WITH ALL OF THE DETAILS OF THIS
PROPOSAL ARE GOING TO BE
SUBMITTED TO THE CITY.
IT'S GOING TO BE SUBMITTED ON
OUR CITY'S DREAM SYSTEM WHICH
IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.
EVERYBODY CAN SEE PLANS THAT
ARE SUBMITTED IN THE CITY AND
THAT'S GOING TO INITIATE THE
WORK OF CITY STAFF MEASURING
THE MERITS OF THIS PROJECT
AGAINST THE CODES AND
REQUIREMENTS AND LAWS OF THE
CITY.
THE CITY COMMUNICATES WHAT IT
EXPECTS THAT A PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT BY OUR CODES IN OUR
CASE IT'S CALLED THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE YOU MIGHT
OF HEARD IT REFERENCED AS A
ZONING ORDINANCE.
THAT'S WHERE WE EXPLICITLY
SPECIFY WHAT WE EXPECT OUT
OF DEVELOPMENT ACROSS THE CITY
THIS WILL BE NO DIFFERENT THAT
ANY PLAN THAT'S SUBMITTED FOR
THE SITE WILL BE MEASURED
AGAINST THOSE STANDARDS AND
THAT'S HOW WE WILL MAKE
DETERMINATION THAT IS DONE NOT
ONLY BY THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT.
IT'S DONE BY A VARIETY OF MY
COLLEAGUES ACROSS THE
ORGANIZATION INCLUDING
ENGINEERING TRANSPORTATION, THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT, NATURAL
FEATURES STORM WATER, SOLID
WASTE AND BECAUSE OF ITS
LOCATION WE'LL ALSO TALK WITH
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY GIVEN THEIR IMPORTANT
ROLE IN SUPPORTING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND ADVOCACY IN
OUR DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT
AFTER A REVIEW PROCESS
ULTIMATELY WE WILL MAKE A
DETERMINATION THAT THE PROJECT
EVENTUALLY DOES OR DOESN'T MEET
ALL OF THOSE STANDARDS IF IT IS
DETERMINED THAT IT MEETS THOSE
STANDARDS, WE WILL SCHEDULE IT
FOR A PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING.
THIS IS WHERE DETERMINATION ON
THE ACTUAL DEVELOPMENT WILL
OCCUR.
WHAT THAT MEANS IS WE'RE GOING
TO SCHEDULE IT FOR A PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS PICTURE MIGHT LOOK
FAMILIAR.
IT'S GOING TO BE IN A ROOM THAT
SEEMS A LOT LIKE THIS ONE WHERE
WE'RE GOING WE'RE GOING TO
SCHEDULE IT AND WHAT WILL
HAPPEN IS WE WILL PUBLISH THAT
PUBLIC HEARING.
WE'RE ALSO GOING TO NOTIFY
PEOPLE WITHIN THREE HUNDRED
FEET OF THE PROPERTY AT THAT
TIME BOTH PROPERTY OWNERS AND
RESIDENTS OF THE PROPOSED
PUBLIC HEARING.
AND WHAT WILL HAPPEN THAT
EVENING IS THAT WILL BE
FEATURED ON THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AGENDA.
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN IS THE
PETITIONER IS GOING TO HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY FIRST TO PRESENT
AND INTRODUCE THEIR PROJECT.
THEN MY COLLEAGUE, A STAFF
PLANNER IS GOING TO SUMMARIZE
THE TECHNICAL REVIEW THAT WAS
CONDUCTED ON THIS PROPOSAL AND
THEN WE'RE GOING TO OPEN IT UP
TO A PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
ANYBODY TO SPEAK ON THAT
PROPOSED SITE PLAN AND THE THE
DECISION THAT'S BEFORE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AT THIS
CASE.
I ANTICIPATE THAT THAT'S GOING
TO BE A SITE PLAN APPROVAL AND
THEN THE PLANNING COMMISSION
WILL DELIBERATE AND THEN THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WILL MAKE A
DETERMINATION IF THAT SITE PLAN
IS APPROVED OR NOT BECAUSE NO
LEGISLATIVE ACTION IS BEING
PROPOSED AT THIS TIME THAT
FINAL DECISION OF THE SITE PLAN
APPROVAL WILL HAPPEN AT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
AND AGAIN I WANT TO REITERATE
THAT THAT IS DISTINCT FROM ANY
DECISION THAT THE CITY ELECTS
TO TAKE WITH A LEASE OR A
TRANSACTION REGARDING THE
PROPERTY.
THEY REALLY ARE SEPARATE
INDEPENDENT PROCESSES THAT
WOULD BE CONSIDERED BY THE CITY
OVERALL.
I ASK A LOT HOW LONG WILL THIS
TAKE OFTEN BY APPLICANTS AND
THE SHORT ANSWER IS I DON'T
KNOW.
IT REALLY DEPENDS ON THE
PROJECT.
IT DEPENDS ON WHAT IS
PRESENTED.
BUT GENERALLY WITHOUT
LEGISLATIVE ACTION WE'RE
PROBABLY LOOKING AT ABOUT A SIX
TO NINE MONTH PROCESS ALL
THINGS CONSIDERED.
I HAVE TO CAVEAT THAT A LOT.
THAT DEPENDS AGAIN ON HOW
QUICKLY WE MEET ALL THE CITY
STANDARD REVIEW CYCLES MEETING
SCHEDULES.
BUT I THINK YOU CAN EXPECT
GENERALLY ABOUT A SIX TO NINE
MONTH PROCESS AND JUST JUST TO
REITERATE THE CITY STREAM
SYSTEM IS AVAILABLE ONLINE THAT
STREAM DOT GOV DOT ORG YOU CAN
FOLLOW ALONG THE PROCESS THE
REVIEW PROCESS OF THIS PETITION
OR ANY PETITION FOR THAT MATTER
THAT THE SUBMITTED IN THE CITY
.
SO IF YOU ARE INTERESTED AS A
MEMBER OF THE COMMUNITY THAT'S
A GREAT PLACE TO GET
INFORMATION AND MILESTONE'S
ABOUT PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
SO THANK YOU FOR FINDING THAT.
SO RATHER THAN ANY SPECIFIC
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE REVIEW
PROCESS, I THINK THIS TIME
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE ALL OF THE
SPEAKERS COME UP TO THE DYAS
AND I'M GOING TO FLIP THIS
FANCY PODIUM ROUND AND THEN
WE'LL GET INTO Q&A IF THE
SPEAKERS COULD SIT TO MY
EXTREME LEFT AND THEN WE'LL
FLIP THE PODIUM AND THEN THE
STAFF TO MY RIGHT WILL HELP
FACILITATE THE Q&A
WITH THE
PEOPLE FROM
THE SHORT SPEAKING
THAT'S
NO SOMEONE TO DIRECT
THEM.
NO
I RIGHT.
>> YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES AND
STAFF WILL START IT BY HINCKER
IT LIVE BERN'S PARK AND WENT TO
HIGH SCHOOL AND COLLEGE HERE.
>> COULD YOU GET CLOSER TO THE
MIC.
YEAH I WANT TO ASK A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT YOUR FIRST
YOUR RELATIONSHIP WITH SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED, THE BRAND NEW YORK
TIMES THIS WEEK SAID IT'S IN
CHAOS THE NRL BE SUED THEM
TODAY AND WHAT IS YOU KNOW, ARE
YOU A LICENSEE?
ARE THEY AN INVESTOR OR THE
EQUITY OWNER IN WHAT YOU'RE
DOING?
HOW'S THAT RELATIONSHIP SHAKE
OUT?
I'D LIKE TO KNOW YOUR
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE EASTERN
BAND OF CHEROKEE INDIANS HOW
MUCH OF AN INVESTOR THEY ARE
AND WHETHER THEIR CAPITAL IS
COMMITTED OR IT'S ACTUALLY IN
YOUR BUSINESS.
AND I'D LIKE TO HEAR ABOUT THE
FINANCIAL PLAN FOR THIS PROJECT
I WAS GOING TO INVEST WHO'S
GOING TO BENEFIT FROM IT AND
WHERE IS THE MONEY GOING COME
FROM?
THANKS AND ANSWER THERE YOU GO.
RIGHT.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
GREAT.
THAT'S A QUESTION REAL QUICK.
SO SPORTS ILLUSTRATED RESORTS
IS THE EXCLUSIVE RESORT
HOSPITALITY GROUP FOR SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED LICENSE.
THE EXCLUSIVE LICENSEE
AUTHENTIC BRANDS GROUP WHICH IS
BASICALLY THE SECOND LARGEST
DONOR VIP OWNS FIFTY TWO
DIFFERENT BRANDS IS ALSO AN
OWNER AND SPORTS STAR RESORTS
THE JUST KIND OF TO ADDRESS
WHAT'S HAPPENED OVER THE LAST
TWO WEEKS IN SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
QUITE FRANKLY WAS IS WAY BLOWN
OUT OF PROPORTION.
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED IS A BIG
BRAND.
EVERYTHING FROM TICKETING TO
PRODUCTIONS TO THEIR BETTING
PLATFORM TO RESORTS TO EVENTS
ON AND ON AND ON THE MEDIA TO
THE MEDIA SIDE IS ONE OF THE
ASPECTS OF SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
AND AN IMPORTANT ONE.
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED ALWAYS
STRIVES TO BE THE BEST IN CLASS
AND FRANKLY RIGHT NOW THEY'RE
GOING THROUGH A RESTRUCTURING
TO BE THE BEST IN CLASS.
>> YOU DON'T HAVE EQUITY
OWNERSHIP.
>> THEY ARE THEY ARE AN OWNER
IN SPORTS ILLUSTRATED RESORTS.
YES.
AUTHENTIC BRANDS IS AUTHENTIC
BRANDS.
THE OWNER OF SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED, THE BRAND A MAJOR
COMPANY THREE BILLION DOLLARS A
YEAR IN SALES.
HE OWNS OVER FIFTY TWO
DIFFERENT BRANDS.
SO VERY SIGNIFICANT THE EASTERN
BAND OF CHEROKEE IS A PARTNER.
THEY ARE ALSO EQUITY OWNER
SIGNIFICANT EQUITY OWNER IN
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED RESORTS.
THEY HAVE COMMITTED OVER THREE
AND TWENTY MILLION DOLLARS TO
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED RESORTS, TO
THE BRAND AND TO PROJECTS THEY
ARE ALREADY IMPLEMENTING
FUNDING INTO PROJECTS AS WE
SPEAK.
>> THEY'RE GAINING CAPITAL
GAME.
>> I COULD JUST SAY RIGHT NOW
WE'RE LOOKING INTO GAMING.
I MEAN I'M I'M A CITIZEN HERE
AND I LOOK INTO GAMING THE
CASINO, OK?
I HAVE NO QUIBBLES WITH THE
FACT THAT WE MIGHT NEED A
CONVENTION CENTER WHICH I'VE
ALWAYS THOUGHT WE NEEDED A
CONVENTION CENTER.
I HAVE A BETTER LOCATION FOR IT
AND I THINK IT SHOULD BE THE
LIBRARY LOT BUT THAT'S A WHOLE
NOTHER THING.
MY QUESTION IS MORE FOR THE
CITY AND WHAT HAPPENED TO A
SURVEY I HEARD ABOUT THAT THIS
LOT WAS DESTINED TO BE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING LIKE A THREE
OR FOUR STORY DEDICATED HOUSING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN.
AND I WAS WONDERING IF YOU
COULD HELP ME TO UNDERSTAND THE
TURNABOUT TO HAVING A BRANDED
CONVENTION CENTER.
>> I PERSONALLY AM NOT FAMILIAR
WITH THE SURVEY.
MAYBE THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
HAPPENED BEFORE I GOT HERE.
BUT AS I SAID AT THE AT THE
OUTSET I ASK IN APRIL OF LAST
YEAR FOR PERMISSION TO LOOK AT
DEVELOPING TWO SITES.
THIS SITE THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT AND THE SPACE RIGHT NEXT
TO CITY HALL.
I CAN'T SPEAK TO FOUR STORY
BUILDING ON IT.
>> YEAH, I DON'T KNOW THE
DETAILS AND I DON'T KNOW
WHETHER I DREAMT IT BUT I WAS
PRETTY I WAS PRETTY CERTAIN
THAT SOMETHING YEAH.
THANK YOU JUST THAT WAS MY
QUESTION.
OK?
YES SIR.
COULD YOU OH THANK YOU.
ARE YOU ALL IN LINE TO ASK
QUESTIONS.
OK SO WE HAVE A LINE FORMED IF
YOU WANT TO ASK A QUESTION IF
YOU'LL STAND IN THAT LINE AND
COME ON UP NOT NOT YOU THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> GO RIGHT AHEAD SIR.
I FOR THIRTY FIVE YEARS I'M NOT
LOVE IN MY HEART.
>> I TAUGHT MY DAUGHTER HOW TO
RIDE A BICYCLE ONTO A CAR AND
WE DO NOT DAMAGE ANYTHING.
>> EVERYONE IS INTRODUCED
HIMSELF.
I I CONCEPTUALIZE CITIES ALL
OVER THE WORLD TO BUY ROYAL
FEEDERS KING OF BULGARIA AND I
COME THIS IS MY CITY.
I LOVE MY CITY.
I WAS A PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE AT
ONE POINT SO I UNDERSTAND WHERE
YOU ARE AND YOUR PRESENTATION
WAS WONDERFUL AS A MASTER
PLANNER WITH THE THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE THAT COME IN
CONVENTION CENTER THEY BRING IN
THE MONEY FOR THE RESTAURANT TO
RECOVER.
WE HAD AN INCREDIBLE BAD
EXPERIENCE IN A LOT OF THE
BUSINESS WENT UNDER BUT NOT
RESTAURANT RIGHT?
NOT DOING WELL.
>> WHAT WE NEED ARE MORE
CONVENTIONAL PEOPLE THAT WILL
COME HERE TO LIVE IMPROVE OUR
CITY RATHER THAN BRING OUR CITY
IN THAT XPERIA THE CITY WILL
GROW.
I THINK IT'S MORE APPROPRIATE
INTELLECTUAL IF YOU ARE AWARE
THAT OUR BOATYARDS COULD THEN
SALEEN IN OTHER COMMUNITY WOULD
TAKE BETTER ADVANTAGE OF IT AND
YOU'LL HAVE THE NEW BRAND
ECONOMICALLY IT WOULD MAKE MORE
SENSE FOR THE CITY AND YOU TO
BE IN THAT ENVIRONMENT.
WE HAVE MAYBE SEVEN TO TEN
PARCELS LAND THAT ARE NOT CORE
VITAL TO US.
THE UNIVERSITY IS CONSTANTLY
RIPPING INTO OUR TAX STRUCTURE,
TAKING SOME OF IT OUT AND I'M
IN I'M IN FAVOR OF YOU COMING
TO ANN ARBOR BUT WE A BETTER
ALTERNATIVE WHEN YOU COULD NOT
IN YOUR CORE THE DOWNTOWN.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
THANK YOU.
NEXT, MR. GUEST'S MY NAME IS
DAN DUQUETTE, A RESIDENT
OF DOWNTOWN.
I'M A MEMBER OF THE DOWNTOWN
AREA CITIZEN'S ADVISORY
COUNCIL.
I JUST HAVE ONE QUESTION.
IT'S ABOUT THE OWNERSHIP OF THE
PROPERTY.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND THAT.
CAN SOMEBODY TELL ME IF ARE
GIVING UP A FREE SAMPLE?
MY UNDERSTANDING IS GOING TO BE
A LEASE.
HOW LONG WILL THAT BE?
HAVE THOSE DECISIONS BEEN MADE?
WHAT EQUITY INTEREST WILL OUR
CITY RETAIN IN THIS PROPERTY
ONCE IT IS A SLICE OF LIFE IS
OVER OR GOING INTO THE FUTURE?
SIR, NO DECISION HAS BEEN MADE
ON ANY DEAL STRUCTURE.
>> WHAT HAS BEEN DISCUSSED IS A
LEASING OF THE LAND THAT WOULD
BRING REVENUE TO THE CITY AND
THEN TAX REVENUE WOULD BE
GENERATED OFF THE SITE AND THAT
WOULD COME TO THE CITY IN A
CERTAIN FORMULA.
NO DECISIONS HAVE BEEN MADE
BECAUSE NOTHING HAS BEEN
PRESENTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
FOR THEM TO ACT ON.
>> WE ARE STILL IN THE TALKING
STAGES OF IT.
>> THAT'S WHERE WE ARE.
YES SIR.
UP.
HELLO MY NAME IS NIKIL PATEL.
THANK YOU GUYS FOR THE TIME.
FIRST JUST A FEW GENERAL
COMMENTS I DO THINK AN
INVESTMENT LIKE THIS IS
IMPORTANT IN THE CITY
OF DETROIT AS A LOT OF PEOPLE
KNOW THE GOVERNOR HAS AN
INITIATIVE AROUND FIGURING OUT
WHAT IT REQUIRES TO BRING YOUNG
PEOPLE TO BOTH KEEP THEM IN THE
STATE AND ATTRACT THEM BACK.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
HAVE USERS OF OUR PLOTS OF LAND
THAT ARE CENTRALLY LOCATED
WITHIN THE CITY TO ATTRACT MORE
YOUNGER TALENT OVER TIME THE
RIPPLE EFFECTS ARE HIGHER.
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT RIPPLE
EFFECTS ARE HIGHER.
HAVING A LOCATION LIKE THIS IN
THE OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN SIMPLY
JUST DOESN'T DRIVE THE KIND
OF ENERGY AND ATTRACTION AND
YOU SEE THAT IN MULTIPLE CITIES
ACROSS THE UNITED STATES YOU'RE
SEEING THAT CONTRIBUTE TO THE
REVITALIZATION IN DETROIT AS
WELL.
>> SO I THINK HAVING SOMETHING
THERE IN WHATEVER FORM OVER
TIME THAT IT EVOLVES INTO IS
IMPORTANT.
I ALSO THINK DRIVING PROJECTS
THAT INCREASE REVENUE
GENERATION THAT CAN THEN BE
LATER ON USED FOR MORE FEASIBLE
,MORE SENSIBLE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS A BETTER PATHWAY
THAN ACTIVATING PLAN FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHERE MAY
NOT GENERATE AS MUCH REVENUE SO
AGAIN THE RIPPLE EFFECTS I
THINK ARE POSITIVE FOR A
PROJECT LIKE THIS.
>> TWO QUESTIONS FOR YOU AND I
KNOW WE'RE EARLY ON IN THIS
PROCESS SO YOU MAY NOT HAVE THE
ANSWER BUT A QUESTION WAS ASKED
AND WHAT IS THE THOUGHT AROUND
THE FINANCING?
WHAT IS THE POTENTIAL DEBT
IMPLICATIONS OR TAX
IMPLICATIONS FOR THIS PROJECT
AND TO AS I MENTIONED WITH
DETROIT, THEY'RE ALSO BUILDING
UP THEIR HOTELS AND CONFERENCE
SPACE AS YOU DID YOUR ANALYSIS.
HOW MUCH OF THAT FACTORED IN
WHERE THERE'S GOING TO BE
DEMAND FOR EVENTS IN ANN ARBOR
OR IN DETROIT?
HOW WILL THAT AFFECT ACTIVITY
IN A FACILITY LIKE THIS
?
THANK YOU.
I'LL SPEAK JUST TO THE FINANCE
STRUCTURE AT A HIGH LEVEL.
I'M NOT A FINANCE EXPERT BUT I
SLEPT AT A HOLIDAY INN LAST
NIGHT.
I HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN A LOT
THREE STRUCTURES THAT ARE QUITE
SIMILAR TO THIS THE FINANCING
STRUCTURE THAT'S BEEN CONCEIVED
AND AGAIN NOTHING HAS BEEN
AGREED TO BUT IN ORDER TO MODEL
THE POTENTIAL OF A FACILITY YOU
HAVE TO DECIDE IF YOU WERE
GOING TO BUY A HOUSE YOU'D HAVE
TO SAY WELL LET'S LOOK AT WHAT
WHERE THE SOURCES OF MONEY ARE,
HOW MUCH I'M GOING TO PUT DOWN.
AND SO THE MODELING THAT'S BEEN
DONE TODAY I THINK MAY HAVE LED
PEOPLE TO BELIEVE THAT THERE'S
BEEN DECISIONS THERE HAVEN'T
WITH THE MARLINS BEEN DONE IS
BASED UPON WHAT OTHER CITIES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY UTILIZE WHEN
THEY ARE ATTEMPTING TO BUILD A
CONFERENCE SPACE THAT IS LARGE
ENOUGH SO THAT IT PRODUCES MORE
HOTEL ROOMS THAN THE HOTEL
THAT'S ASSOCIATED WITH IT THAT
MAKES SENSE.
YOU'RE GOING TO BUILD A SPACE
THAT IMPACTS POSITIVELY A
NUMBER OF OTHER LODGING
FACILITIES, RESTAURANTS AND
OTHER THINGS.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE ENOUGH
TABLES TO FEED EVERYBODY THAT
WOULD HAVE COME TO A CONFERENCE
AND SO ON AND SO FORTH.
SO BECAUSE OF THE BENEFITS TO
THAT TO THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL
JOBS CREATION AND OTHER
BENEFITS OF A STRUCTURE OF THAT
SORT FACILITIES LIKE THIS ARE
QUITE FREQUENTLY BUILT USING A
NONPROFIT DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION THAT IS A COMPANY
THAT IS A NONPROFIT ENTITY THAT
EXISTS FOR THE PURPOSE
OF DEVELOPING INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT SERVES A PUBLIC GOOD.
IT MUST MEET THAT CRITERIA.
THIS FACILITY IS NOT YOU CAN'T
JUST GO SAY PLEASE GIVE ME THE
MONEY YOU HAVE TO PASS THROUGH
ALL KINDS OF STUDIES THAT SHOW
AND ILLUSTRATE THIRD PARTY
INDEPENDENT STUDIES THAT
ILLUSTRATE THAT THE GREAT THE
GOOD IS GREATER THAN THE VENUE
ITSELF AND IN A STRUCTURE LIKE
THAT THE NONPROFIT DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
PAYING THE DEBT AND THERE IS A
NONRECOURSE RELATIONSHIP WITH A
MUNICIPALITY THAT IS TO SAY
THAT THE MUNICIPALITY IS NOT
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEBT IN A
STRUCTURE LIKE THAT YOU
FREQUENTLY NEED TO LEAVE THE
OWNERSHIP OF THE LAND IN THE
DIRT
WITH THE WITH THE
MUNICIPALITY AND SO YOU ENTER
INTO A LEASE AGREEMENT RATHER
THAN THEN TAKING THAT FROM THE
CITY AT THE TIME OF THE OF THE
LAUNCH.
AND SO THIS STRUCTURE IF YOU
WERE TO RESEARCH HOW CONFERENCE
CENTERS, CONVENTION CENTERS,
MEETINGS, BASES, EVEN YOUTH AND
AMATEUR COMPLEXES, YOU KNOW,
VENUES ARE BUILT THIS IS VERY
COMMON AND SO IN THE MODELING
PROCESS WE UTILIZE THAT
STRUCTURE.
WE MET WITH ATTORNEYS.
WE LOOKED AT EVERYTHING THAT
MIGHT BE SO THAT WE COULD SAY
IS THIS CONCEIVABLE?
CAN WE DO WHAT OTHER CITIES DO
TO FINANCE SOMETHING LIKE THIS
AND ELIMINATE OR NEARLY REDUCE
THE RISK TO THE CITY?
>> OK, SO THAT'S WHAT'S BEEN
CONCEIVED SO FAR.
THAT'S WHAT THE MODELING HAS
BEEN BASED ON.
AS WE SAY, NO DECISIONS HAVE
BEEN MADE BUT THAT CONCEPT IS
NOT NEW.
IT'S NOT FRESH.
IT'S NOT EVEN CONSIDERED
INNOVATIVE ANYMORE EVEN THOUGH
THE PEOPLE THAT DO IT ARE VERY
INNOVATIVE.
IT IS IT IS JUST TRIED AND TRUE
AND SO THAT'S HOW THE
MODELING'S BEEN DONE TODAY.
>> I HOPE THAT ANSWERS ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT YOU SAID TO
WHICH WAS APPROPRIATE IS THAT
YOU KNOW, SOMEONE ELSE
MENTIONED BEFORE YOU PUT THIS
SOMEWHERE ELSE OUTSIDE
OF NARBOROUGH THAT'S ALREADY
THERE.
I MEAN THERE'S A BIG CONFERENCE
IN YPSILANTI THAT HAS THE
BIGGER SPACE AND THEY GO THERE
AND THEY'RE NOT COMING DOWNTOWN
THEN AABA YOU KNOW, WE NEED TO
BRING THOSE DOLLARS HERE.
>> IT'S THE GREATEST DOLLARS
YOU CAN HAVE BILLIONS OF 440,
SIR, COMING HERE ALL FROM
QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
>> YEAH, SIR.
YEAH.
WHAT DO YOU WANT FROM YOUR LAND
LANDLORD YOU KNOW CORE CAPITAL
HOW YOU PEOPLE THAT IF YOU
SPEND LIKE A DROP LIKE THIS
OTHER PEOPLE WILL GIVE YOU AN
EMPLOYEE SWEPT TO THE CITY
PORTION OF THE QUESTION THAT
WAS ASKED.
SO I JUST JUST ONE QUICK LET ME
FINISH THE CITY HAS BEEN IN
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED TEAM FOR THE
PURPOSE OF SEEING IF TERM SHEET
COULD BE DEVELOPED.
>> WE HAVE NOT COMPLETED THOSE
DISCUSSIONS.
THEREFORE WE HAVE NOT HAD
ANYTHING TO TAKE TO THE CITY
COUNCIL.
WE PAUSE DISCUSSING IN ORDER TO
HAVE A MEETING, SOME MEETINGS
AND CONVERSATIONS LIKE THIS BUT
IN ORDER FOR IT, SIR, PLEASE IS
SIR, PLEASE DON'T DENY THAT YOU
SHUT IT OFF.
NO, DON'T DOWNPLAY IT SIR.
>> IF WE GET WE GET OUT IF WE
COULD HAVE ORDER WE ARE ALREADY
SO IT'S AT SOME POINT WE WOULD
TAKE SOMETHING TO CITY COUNCIL
TO ACT UPON.
WE HAVEN'T DONE THAT YET.
>> GOOD EVENING.
GO AHEAD PLEASE.
HI MY NAME IS KATHY GRISWOLD.
I AM A FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER.
I AM ALSO ON THE BOARD
OF GOVERNORS OF THE MICHIGAN
LEAGUE.
THE MICHIGAN LEAGUE REALLY
FUNCTIONS AS A SMALL CONFERENCE
CENTER.
IT EVEN HAS HOTEL ROOMS ON THE
TOP.
WE HEARD FROM DESTINATION ANN
ARBOR THAT WE NEED A CONFERENCE
CENTER AND OBVIOUSLY ONE BIGGER
THAN JUST THE LEAGUE.
HOWEVER, THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HAS A VERY
PROFESSIONAL PLAN FOR A
CONFERENCE CENTER ON NORTH
CAMPUS AND THEY LOOK LIKE
THEY'RE MOVING FORWARD.
THEY'RE NOT AT THE RFP PROCESS.
SHE HAD THREE RFQ PROCESS.
SO IN YOUR PLANNING FOR A
CONFERENCE CENTER, ARE YOU
TAKING INTO ACCOUNT A
CONFERENCE CENTER THAT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS
PLANNING IT?
YEAH, I THINK DESTINATION ANN
ARBOR MAY BE AVAILABLE, YES.
I WOULD JUST SAY THAT EIGHT
THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED AND
WHATEVER IT WAS RFP REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS OR REQUESTS FOR SPACE
RIGHT.
THESE ARE GROUPS THAT ARE
SEEKING SPACE WITH MORE THAN
PRODUCE THE DEMAND NECESSARY TO
FILL BOTH SPACES.
>> SO WE'RE WE'RE SAYING TO
LARGE SO WITHOUT THE UNIVERSITY
HERE AND THIS IS PRELIMINARY AS
YOU MENTIONED SO TO KNOW THE
TRUE USE OF THAT SPACE AND WHAT
THE UNIVERSITY'S INTENTIONS
ARE, I DON'T THINK ANYONE ON
THIS PANEL CAN SPEAK TO THAT.
WE DID TALK TO SXL, THE GROUP
THAT COMMISSIONED THE STUDY AND
ASKED THEM THAT VERY QUESTION
WHILE THEY HAD THE SAME SAME
RESPONSE THAT I JUST GAVE YOU,
THEY FELT THAT THE MARKET HERE
WAS STRONG ENOUGH TO SUPPORT
BOTH SIZES OF FACILITIES.
>> PEOPLE DO WANT TO BE HERE.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THE ANSWER.
>> I I THINK THAT THIS COUNCIL
WHEN I WAS THERE AND CURRENTLY
IS STILL BASED ON WISHFUL
THINKING.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. HAYNER.
HI.
>> HOW ARE YOU DOING MR. HONY?
MY NAME'S JEFF HAYNER, FORMER
CITY COUNCIL OF PERSONNELS.
JUST REAL QUICK, I'VE KNOWN
CHRIS FOR WHAT ALMOST THIRTY
YEARS NOW AND YEAH, ALMOST
RIGHT.
AND SO HE'S YOU KNOW, HE'S A
BIG THINKER GUY AND SO THESE
ARE BIG IDEAS THAT ARE COMING
BEFORE US HERE.
A COUPLE OF THINGS.
SO WHEN I WAS ON COUNCIL A
COUPLE OF THINGS HAPPENED.
ONE WAS AT SOME POINT AND MANY
POINTS FRANKLY OVER THE YEARS
AT ONE WHEN I WAS ON COUNCIL WE
RECEIVED A STUDY THAT TALKED
ABOUT CONFERENCE CENTERS IN
HOTELS AND THESE TYPES
OF THINGS.
AND IF YOU REALLY DUG DOWN IN
THERE AND READ WHAT IT SAID,
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE
COMPARABLE PROPERTIES THAT WERE
LISTED WERE OPERATING IN THE
RED AND EVEN SOME OF THEM WERE
EVEN OPERATING THE RED WITH
HUGE AMOUNTS OF MUNICIPAL
SUPPORT BEHIND THEM.
AND SO THESE THINGS AREN'T REAL
BIG WINNERS AND MOST PUBLIC
PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.
I THINK IT'S COMMON KNOWLEDGE
THAT THE PUBLIC TAKES THE RISK
AND THE PRIVATE MAKES A PROFIT
AND THAT'S JUST HOW WHAT P
THREE MEANS TO PEOPLE AND IT'S
KIND OF WHAT IT MEANS TO ME.
OK, THAT'S THAT'S ONE THING.
>> NOW THE OTHER THING WE DID
ON COUNCIL WAS WE ASKED GENERAL
WHO'S IN CHARGE THE ENTIRE
HOUSING COMMISSION TO EVALUATE
ELEVEN CITY OWNED PROPERTIES
FOR THEIR POTENTIAL AND THE
QUALITY OF CREATING SOCIAL
HOUSING IN OUR COMMUNITY WHICH
WE ALL AGREED IS MUCH NEEDED
AND THIS IS ONE OF THOSE
PROPERTIES AND IT SCORED WELL
ABOVE THE FOLD OF THOSE ELEVEN
Y IT IS NOT BEING AND I DIDN'T
WANT TO YELL OUT EARLIER BUT MY
QUESTION WOULD HAVE BEEN HOW
MANY AFFORDABLE UNITS ARE IN
YOUR BUILDING?
WELL IT'S ZERO LIKE EVERYTHING
ELSE WE SEEM TO BUILD HERE IN
THE CITY.
OK, SO THAT CAME FORWARD AND IT
RANKED THIS IS A GOOD PROPERTY
FOR SOCIAL HOUSING.
I GUESS MY LAST THING IS NOT
REALLY A QUESTION BUT A COMMENT
THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE SAID
TO ME BECAUSE THEY THINK I
STILL KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON.
WHY WOULD THE CITY BE
PARTNERING WITH AN ORGANIZATION
THAT IS RESTRUCTURING RIGHT NOW
AND PERHAPS IS BEST KNOWN FOR
EXPLOITING WOMEN AND SWIMSUIT
ISSUE IS THAT THE BRAND OF ANN
ARBOR?
>> IS THAT OUR BRAND?
I THINK IT'S TERRIBLE.
YES, SIR.
PLEASE COME UP.
>> HELLO, I'M DREW PETERSON.
I'M A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN GRAD AND COULD YOU GET
A LITTLE CLOSER TO THE MALL?
>> YEAH, MY VOICE IS A LITTLE
LITTLE WEAK I HAVE IN THE
COURSE OF MY CAREER REPRESENTED
A NUMBER OF DEVELOPERS IN
AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS THAT HAVE
SOUGHT PUBLIC FINANCING IN
VARIOUS FORMS OF IT AND I HAVE
LEARNED THAT THE DEVIL IS IN
THE DETAIL.
SO I HAVE A QUESTION.
THERE WAS A NOVEMBER LAST YEAR
DRAFT TERM SHEET THAT BECAME
PUBLIC SOMETIME IN EARLY
JANUARY AND I WROTE A LETTER TO
THE CITY COUNCIL OVER MY
CONCERNS THAT WERE RAISED IN
THAT TERM SHEET.
AND SO MY QUESTION IS HAS THERE
BEEN A CHANGE IN THAT TERM
SHEET AND WHAT WAS THE CITY'S
PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPING
THAT TERM SHEET?
I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE WHAT YOU
SAW BUT THERE HAVE BEEN VARIOUS
ITERATIONS OF A TERM SHEET AND
SO THE TERM SHEET HAS EVOLVED
THROUGH TWO OR THREE DIFFERENT
WRITINGS.
>> WE HAVE BEEN ON HOLD, SO TO
SPEAK, FOR A COUPLE OF MONTHS
ON NEGOCIATE TO FINISH THE TERM
SHEET ONE FOR THE HOLIDAYS AND
TWO SO THAT WE COULD DO THE
MEETING FIRST.
SO I'M NOT SURE WHAT VERSION
WE'RE ON NOW AND I DON'T KNOW
HOW IT COMPARES TO WHAT YOU
LOOKED AT.
WE HAVE BEEN IN DISCUSSIONS
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING THE
VERY FIRST ITERATION OF THE
TERM SHEET AND IT'S EVOLVED
FROM THERE WELL BECAUSE THE
DEVIL IS IN THE DETAIL I WOULD
APPRECIATE IF THE LATEST
VERSIONS OF THE TERM SHEET
COULD BE MADE PUBLICLY
AVAILABLE.
>> WE ARE PLANNING TO DO IT.
IT DOES SEEM TO ME THAT THIS
MEETING IS PERHAPS PREMATURE
THE CART BEFORE THE HORSE
BECAUSE IT REALLY IS IMPORTANT
WHAT THE DETAILS ARE.
THE TERM SHEET THAT WAS
PUBLISHED IN EARLY JANUARY I
HAD A NOVEMBER DATE ON IT AND
IT HAD THE CITY TAKING THE
ENTIRE RISK OF THIS PROJECT AND
I CITY TIFA FINANCING AND
THAT'S THE STATE ULTIMATELY.
BUT I'M SKEPTICAL OF OF THOSE
FINANCING ISSUES AND I I THINK
I HAVE EXPERIENCE THAT DICTATES
THAT THE MOST RECENT ONE IS A
WONDERFUL LITTLE CAESAR'S ARENA
THAT TOOK THIRTY FIVE AND A
HALF MILLION DOLLARS FROM THE
OPERATING BUDGET OF THE DETROIT
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
THE POOREST SCHOOL DISTRICT IN
AMERICA AND THEY REIMBURSED IN
IN
THE S-1 IT SAID REIMBURSING
THE DEVELOPERS TO BILLIONAIRES.
>> THIRTY FIVE AND A HALF
MILLION OUT OF THE POOR SCHOOL
DISTRICT IN AMERICA.
YES, SIR.
MR. NADER, YOUR NEXT ON HABOUR.
>> I WENT THROUGH A PROCESS
LIKE THIS WITH THE VALEANT
CONFERENCE CENTER IN 2009
RESPONSIVE TO A REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS FOR THE CITY AND THE
CITY WAS VERY EXCITED ABOUT
THAT.
THEY GOT A VERY GOOD
PRESENTATION NOT UNLIKE SOME
OF WHAT I HEARD AND TELL
SOMEBODY WHO WAS ACTUALLY SOME
OTHER KIND OF PRO ABOUT HOTEL
CALCULATION AND CONFERENCE
CENTER ACTUAL PRACTICE SAID
THIS HOTEL WAS OVERRATED AT
CONFERENCE CENTER WAS NOT GOING
TO BE VIABLE AND THE CITY WAS
GOING TO BE LEFT HOLDING THE
BAG AND YET I HEAR THE SIMILAR
KINDS OF THINGS EVERYTHING IS
GOING TO BE TAKEN CARE OF BUT
THAT'S A GOOD A THE ECONOMICS
OF THIS PROPOSAL IS IMPORTANT
BUT IT SHOULDN'T BE WHERE IT IS
.
AND I'M REALLY DISAPPOINTED
THAT WHEN THIS PROPERTY THAT
HAS BEEN PART OF THE CONGRESS
AND THE CITY FOR A LONG TIME IS
BEFORE YOU ARE HERE.
YOU KNOW IT'S BEEN ON THE
DOCKET FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FOR WORK OR HOUSING AND WHEN
SOMEBODY COMES IN OFF THE
STREET MORE OR LESS WITH A GOOD
IDEA, IT DOES HAVE A BIG
REVENUE MULTI MILLION DOLLARS.
IT WOULD BE PROPER TO SAY OK,
WE ARE NOW CONSIDERING THIS
PROPERTY.
LET'S LOOK FOR A REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS TO SEE WHERE WE CAN
GET OUR HOUSING FROM THE CITY
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
AND YOU'RE NOT ASKING FOR WHAT
IS POSSIBLE ON AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
WE HEARD THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT OF THE DDA HEARD
FROM ALL THE DEVELOPERS.
YOU CANNOT HAVE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ON PRIVATE LAND.
THE ECONOMICS DO NOT SUPPORT IT
IF YOU HAVE PUBLIC LAND THEN
YOU CAN PUT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FOR THE WORKERS WHO WORK
DOWNTOWN BUT PRIVATE LAND YOU
CAN'T DO IT.
WHY ARE PEOPLE NOT BUYING THE
PRIVATE LAND OK, YOU COME ON UP
SIR.
HELLO MY NAME DON'T YOU I I AM
AN ARCHITECT DOWNTOWN I HAVE A
HOME ABOUT HALF A MILE FROM
FROM I GUESS THIS PROPERTY I
THINK THERE'S A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT JUST ABOUT
JUST THE FORM OF THE BUILDING.
I'M I'M IMPRESSED THAT NO ONE'S
TALKING ABOUT THE FORM THIS
BILL I THINK THE INTERIOR HAS
OVER THE YEARS BEEN GIVEN SOME
REALLY UNFLATTERING TALL
BUILDINGS AND YOU CAN JUST TAKE
A LOOK AROUND I THINK I MEAN I
MEAN THE I JUST WOULD ASK ABOUT
JUST THE TOWER THAT WAS
PLANNED.
>> I THINK THAT IT USES A LOT
OF SOME OF THE I MEAN DOES IT
PART OF IT IT LOOKS LIKE A LOT
LIKE THE TOWER PLAZA AND ALSO
LIKE THE CITY CENTER BUILDING.
I THINK BOTH THINGS THAT I
DON'T THINK REALLY KIND OF JUST
DON'T LOOK WHAT I GUESS LIKE A
NEW ANN I WOULD BE.
AND IT ALSO WOULD THINK THAT
JUST IT THE SQUARE FOOTAGE IS
ARTS.
YOU COULD PROBABLY BUILD MORE
KIND OF I GUESS MORE HOUSING
WITHIN THAT.
SO THAT'S ALWAYS THANK YOU.
YES, SIR.
I CAN ANN, EVERY RESIDENT THANK
YOU FOR YOUR PRESENTATIONS.
>> VERY INFORMATIVE ANN ARBOR
THE APPEAL IS ITS AUTHENTICITY
.
IT'S EVOLVED OVER ALMOST TWO
HUNDRED YEARS TO WHERE IT IS
TODAY AND IT'S THIS
AUTHENTICITY THAT MAKES AN
APPEALING TO AND YET YOU'RE
PROPOSING TO PUT IN A HUGE,
MASSIVE SYNTHETIC ENVIRONMENT.
IT JUST DOESN'T FIT.
CAN'T YOU DESIGN SOMETHING THAT
WOULD BE MORE COMPATIBLE WITH
THE ANN ARBOR THAT EXISTS NOW
INSTEAD OF THIS TOTALLY
INAPPROPRIATE SYNTHETIC THING?
WHEN I GO AWAY TO A CONFERENCE
OR OTHER EVENT, I'M ONE
OF THOSE SYNTHETIC SPACES I
COME HOME AND BREATHE A SIGH
OF RELIEF.
IT'S SUCH A COMFORT TO BE BACK
INTO A TOWN THAT IS HUMAN
SCALED COMFORTABLE AND NOT
SYNTHETIC.
OK, SOME QUESTIONS WOULDN'T
THIS PROJECT FIT BETTER MORE
COMFORTABLY ON A MORE SPACIOUS
SIDE MAYBE TOWARD THE EDGE
OF ANN ARBOR WITH ENOUGH SPACE
FOR A COMFORTABLE MASSING
OF ALL THE THINGS THAT YOU'RE
PROPOSING TO DO AND MORE USABLE
OUTDOOR SPACE FOR SOME OF THOSE
ACTIVITIES?
>> I THINK IT WOULD QUESTION
FOR THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR HOW
MANY MORE CARS AND TRUCKS, GAS
BURNING AND DIESEL BURNING WILL
THIS ENDEAVOR BRING INTO OUR
DOWNTOWN AND HOW DOES THAT FIT
WITH OUR EIGHT TO ZERO GOALS?
>> AND THIRD, THIS DEVELOPMENT
WITH RESTAURANTS, HOTELS AND A
VARIETY OF SERVICES GENERATE
HUNDREDS, MAYBE EVEN THOUSANDS
OF LOW AND MIDDLE INCOME JOBS
FOR PEOPLE WHO WON'T BE ABLE TO
AFFORD TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
>> WE NEED TO STOP KICKING THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CAN DOWN THE
ROAD AND MAKE OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE WHO WORK HERE TO LIVE
HERE.
THIS HAS BEEN A PRIORITY FOR AS
LONG AS I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR
AND SO LITTLE IS HAPPENING.
>> WE'VE GOT TO ADDRESS THOSE
NEEDS RATHER THAN A SYNTHETIC
CONFERENCE CENTER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> YES SIR.
HELLO MY NAME IS KAREN NESBITT.
I'M RETIRED FROM THE UNIVERSITY
.
I'VE BEEN INVOLVED IN A LOT
OF THINGS AROUND TOWN WITH
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
IT'S ONE OF THE FOUNDERS
VANOVER SPARKE WORK WITH TECH
TRANSFER AND BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENT SO I'M WELL AWARE
OF SOME OF THE ACTIVITIES OVER
THE LAST TEN TO TWENTY YEARS.
I ACTUALLY DO AGREE THAT THERE
PROBABLY COULD BE COULD BE A
NEED FOR A CONVENTION CENTER.
I FEEL LIKE I HAVE TWO MAIN
PROBLEMS WITH WHAT I'M HEARING.
NUMBER ONE IS I FEEL LIKE THERE
REALLY SHOULD BE TWO TO AN RFP
FOR ONE.
FROM WHAT I'VE HEARD I'M
ACTUALLY DISTURB BY THE FACT
THAT THERE WASN'T MORE INSIGHT
INTO OTHER OPTIONS BEFORE JUST
HAVING JUST ONE PROPOSAL.
IT MIGHT BE A GREAT PROPOSAL
BUT I FEEL LIKE I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE OTHER OPTIONS ARE.
I FEEL LIKE THERE REALLY SHOULD
BE TWO REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS
OR REQUESTS FOR CONSIDERATIONS
.
ONE SHOULD BE WITH THAT SITE.
IS THAT THE BEST USE FOR THAT
SITE?
I'M NOT CONVINCED.
NUMBER TWO IS WHAT'S THE BEST
POSSIBLE CONVENTION CENTER
OPTION PROPOSAL WE COULD GET
SOMEWHERE IN TOWN?
YOURS MIGHT BE IT BUT PUT THE
TWO TOGETHER.
>> I JUST FEEL LIKE IT'S PUSHED
IT'S RUSHED AND IT JUST DOESN'T
SEEM LIKE IT'S WELL THOUGHT
OUT.
I WISH WE MIGHT EVEN THINK
ABOUT PARTNERING WITH THE
UNIVERSITY.
I'M NOT SURE I'M FAMILIAR WITH
EXACTLY WHAT'S GOING ON BUT
PARTNERING AND HAVING PERHAPS A
JOINT PROPOSAL FOR A CONVENTION
SUMMER SOMEWHERE WOULD BE
TERRIFIC.
SO I GUESS MY QUESTION IT'S NOT
NECESSARILY YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY.
I UNDERSTAND THE COUNCIL BUT
HAVE WE CONSIDERED CHANGING THE
PROCESS WHERE WE MIGHT LOOK AT
BOTH OF THOSE OPTIONS THERE AT
THE POINT WE ARE NOW THE
MAJORITY OF COUNCIL HAS GIVEN
DIRECTION FOR US TO CONTINUE
THE PROCESS.
WE STILL, AS I INDICATED,
HAVEN'T TAKEN THEM ANY KIND
OF A STRUCTURE.
WHAT YOU'RE SUGGESTING MIGHT BE
SOMETHING THAT COUNCIL TAKES
ACTION ON BUT THAT HAS NOT
OCCURRED YET AND YOUR YOUR
REFERENCE TO ARE WE IN ANY
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN ABOUT THEIR PLANS?
ONLY IN GENERAL TERMS WE'RE NOT
IN ANY KIND OF INTIMATE
DISCUSSIONS WITH WHAT THEIR
PLANS ARE.
>> MIGHT BE A GOOD IDEA THOUGH,
DON'T YOU THINK?
>> MIGHT BE LET ME HELP YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
YES.
HELLO, I'M TOM STALBERG.
I'M CELEBRATING OUR CITY'S
BICENTENNIAL THIS YEAR.
I'M ALSO A BIG SPORTS FAN,
FORMER SUBSCRIBER TO ASSAD
MAGAZINE AND AN ATHLETE AND
COACH HERE AT U OF M IN THE
PAST I SUPPOSE I WAS PRIVATE
LANDHOLDER AND SEASIDE RESORTS
APPROACHED ME BEFORE TYING UP
MY VERY VALUABLE ASSET MAKING
IT UNAVAILABLE TO ANY OF THE
PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER.
I WOULD WANT TO SCRUTINIZE THE
LIKELIHOOD OF THIS FIRST
SOUTERS SUCCESS.
YOU WILL SECURE AN OPTION FOR
ME IF I THINK YOU HAVE A GOOD
CHANCE OF SUCCEEDING I WILL IT
CHECK YOUR TRACK RECORD.
I WILL ASK TO SEE YOUR HOMEWORK
WITH REGARD TO THE MARKET
DEMAND AND POTENTIAL
COMPETITION I WOULD CHECK OUT
YOUR PRO FORMA TO SEE IF THE
PROJECTIONS ARE REASONABLE.
I WOULD VERIFY YOUR ABILITY TO
FINANCE THIS PROJECT.
>> YOU HAVE NO ACTUAL
DEVELOPMENT TRACK RECORD STRIKE
ONE THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
IS IN A PARALLEL PROCESS OR
SIMILAR PRODUCT TO CONFERENCE
CENTER HOTEL AND RESTAURANT.
THE BRAND IS ONE OF THE TOP
SPORTS BRAND IN THE COUNTRY.
THE U OF M HAS THE LAND AND THE
TRACK FOR SUCCESSFUL
DEVELOPMENT AND THE USE OF THEM
DOESN'T HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE
THE APPROVAL PROCESS.
IT LOOKS LIKE THE U OF M WILL
GET THEIRS BUILT IN THE NEAR
FUTURE.
THAT'S TOUGH COMPETITION AND
THE TEAM HASN'T ADDRESSED THIS
SUFFICIENTLY THAT STRIKE TWO I
WOULD WANT TO SEE YOUR NUMBERS.
SOME OF US PRELIMINARY RUN
NUMBERS, SOME HYPOTHETICAL ONES
AND WE DON'T SAY HOW THIS WILL
SUCCEED FOUL BALL AND TWO
STRIKES YOU'RE STILL BACK.
THE TEAM WANTS TO FINANCE IT
WITH BONDS ISSUED FROM A NON
PROFIT BUT THIS IS CLEARLY A
FOR PROFIT ENDEAVOR YOU WANT
OVER ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
FINANCING, NO RECOURSE OR ANY
SKIN IN THE GAME FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM, NO RECOURSE
FOR THE LANDHOLDER WHICH SOUNDS
GOOD FOR THE LANDHOLDER EXCEPT
THERE ARE RISKS THAT HAVEN'T
BEEN ADDRESSED AND WITH NO
RECOURSE WHO IS GOING
TO BUY
THESE BONDS AND POSSIBLY BE THE
ONE HOLDING THE BAG IF THE
PROJECT FAILS?
I DO NOT SEE THE FINANCE
FINANCING SUFFICIENTLY SECURED
TO TIE UP MY VERY VALUABLE LAND
STRIKE THREE YOU ARE OUT SO I
WANT TO I WANT TO MAKE A
COMMENT ON THAT BECAUSE I HAVE
TO I LIKE THE ANALOGY BUT I
ALSO DON'T LIKE THAT
OFFICIATING NO.
ONE, WE HAVE GONE TO THE THE
GOLD STANDARDS OF FEASIBILITY
STUDIES.
WE HAVE DONE FEASIBILITY
STUDIES, YOU KNOW, WITH GROUPS
LIKE HP US THERE DID ALL THE
FEASIBILITY STUDIES FOR
MULTIPLE PROJECTS ETC. THEY
HAVE MORE THAN VALIDATED WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
DESTINATION ARBER HAS DONE
STUDIES MORE THAN VALIDATED
BOTH FACILITIES AS WE DISCUSSED
WE TALK ABOUT REVENUES COMING
INTO THIS TOWN YIELD THE
GREATEST REVENUES IN THE WORLD
OR PEOPLE THAT COME HERE AND
VISIT AND LEAVE THEIR MONEY
HERE BECAUSE IT MEANS THAT WE
AS TAXPAYERS DON'T HAVE TO PAY
FOR A LOT OF THINGS THAT
THEY'RE BRINGING IN BRINGING
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND WE HAVE
MORE INVALIDATED AND THE FACT
THAT WE HAVEN'T DONE
DEVELOPMENT YES WE HAVE GROUPS
AND OUR ENTIRE TEAM IS DONE
OVER BILLIONS OF DOLLARS WITH
THE DEVELOPMENT AND FUNDING.
SO I'M NOT SURE WHERE YOU GOT
YOUR INFORMATION BUT THIS IS
ALL BEEN THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE
TODAY.
THAT'S WHY WE'VE DONE ALL THE
STUDIES WE'VE DONE ALL THE
FLOOR PLANS AND ALL THE
DIFFERENT DESIGNS.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE TODAY TO
TALK ABOUT THAT BECAUSE WE'RE
NOT GOING TO SPEND THE MONEY.
YOU SAY WE ALL HAVE SKIN IN THE
GAME.
WE HAVE A LOT OF SKIN IN THE
GAME TO THIS POINT.
IN FACT SPENDING MILLIONS JUST
TO GET TO THIS POINT, YOU KNOW,
WITH THE HOPE AND AGAIN AS A
CITIZEN, YOU KNOW, I LOVE ALL
THIS BUT THE FACT IS WE'RE
BRINGING A LOT OF MONEY INTO
THIS TOWN BY DOING THIS AND THE
STUDIES HAVE SHOWN WE NEED IT.
>> SO THAT'S THE FACTS.
>> YES, SIR.
HELLO.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS STEVE PALMS.
I'M A RESIDENT OF THE CITY.
I ALSO HAVE TWO DEGREES FROM
THE UNIVERSITY, AN UNDERGRAD
DEGREE AND A LAW DEGREE AND I
AM A COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
LAWYER WHO'S DONE A LOT
OF GROUND THESE DEALS WITH BOTH
PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ENTITIES AND
SO I'M VERY FAMILIAR WITH THE
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND
THOSE ARRANGEMENTS AND WHAT I
WOULD ASK HERE IS JUST SIMPLE
TRANSPARENCY.
YOU KNOW, I'M TOLD THIS IS A
GROUND LEASE.
IS THIS A SUBORDINATED AROUND
LEASE OR IS THIS A NON
SUBORDINATED GROUNDLESS WHAT'S
THE RENT THAT'S GOING TO BE
PAID THAT BASED ON THE LAND
VALUE OR IS THAT PART OF THE
CONTRIBUTION THAT YOU'RE
ACTUALLY LOOKING FOR FROM THE
CITY WHERE YOU'RE GETTING
BENEFICIAL RENT RATE ON THE
LAND AND IS THE CITY RISKING
THE LOSS OF THE LAND IS THERE'S
CERTAINLY GOING TO BE A LENDER
HERE THAT COMES IN LOOKING FOR
THE BEST COLLATERAL THEY HAVE
AGAIN, IS THIS A NON
SUBORDINATED GROUNDLESS OR IS
IT GOING TO BE SUBORDINATED TO
THE LENDER?
WHAT'S THE CREDIT SITUATION?
I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT THERE
ARE PUBLIC BONDS BEING ISSUED
AND SO AGAIN THE PUBLIC HAS A
HUGE ROLE IN THE FINANCING
OF THIS PROJECT.
AND AGAIN, ALL I WOULD ASK FOR
IS IS TRANSPARENCY OVER BECAUSE
IN EFFECT WHAT YOU'RE DOING
WITH WITH THE PUBLIC ROLE IS IN
FACT YOUR PARTNER BECAUSE
THEY'RE THERE.
THEY'VE GOT A LOT OF SKIN IN
THE GAME AND I THINK THERE
OUGHT TO BE COMPLETE FULL
TRANSPARENCY ABOUT WHAT THAT
SKIN IS WHO'S TAKING THE RISK.
AND MOST OFTEN YOU LOOK FOR A
DEVELOPER TO PUT IN THE YOU
KNOW, THE EQUITY PORTION AND
NOT THE YOU KNOW, NOT NOT THE
MUNICIPALITY OR YOU KNOW, THE
GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY AND YES, IF
YOU'RE ASKING FOR THAT, JUST BE
FULLY TRANSPARENT SO WE KNOW
WHERE THE MONEY'S COMING FROM.
WHO HAS SKIN IN THE GAME?
WHOSE IS IT AND WHAT WHAT IS
THE RETURN?
SO AGAIN, I'M JUST ASKING FOR
TRANSPARENCY HERE SO THAT
EVERYBODY KNOWS WHAT WHAT
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THE OVERALL
PICTURE.
>> THANK YOU AND BEFORE YOU
START, I JUST WANT TO SAY WE
ARE GOING TO BE COMPLETELY
TRANSPARENT ABOUT THE FINANCIAL
ASPECTS OF THE TRANSACTION,
COMPLETELY TRANSPARENT.
>> YES, MA'AM.
GO AHEAD.
HI, MY NAME IS DIANA RAYMI.
I HAD A LAW PRACTICE DOWNTOWN
AND I WORKED FOR FORTY FIVE
YEARS.
I HAVE SIMILAR CONCERNS ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENS IF THIS PROJECT
FAILS.
ARE WE GOING TO BE LEFT WITH A
BIG HULKING BEHEMOTH OF A
VACANT STRUCTURE IN DOWNTOWN?
TAKE A LOOK.
DAYTON, OHIO OR SOME OF THE
OTHER PLACES WHERE THEY HAVE
STRUGGLING CONVENTION CENTERS
AND IT'S NOT AN ASSET TO A
CITY'S CORE.
MY QUESTION IS FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND DESTINATION
ANN ARBOR SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
BESIDES BEING KNOWN RIGHT NOW
FOR BEING IN DISARRAY AND
POSSIBLY NOT BEING ABLE TO
PUBLISH ANYMORE AND BEING THE
TARGET OF SOME LABOR ACTIONS IS
ALSO MOSTLY KNOWN FOR ITS
SWIMSUIT ISSUE.
>> IF YOU'VE LOOKED AT THE
WEBSITE FOR THE SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED RESORTS, IT'S A
SUCCESSION OF SEMI CLAD WOMEN
IN BIKINIS FROLICKING IN
WATERFALLS AND THAT REALLY
SEEMS TO BE MAINLY WHAT SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED IS SELLING THESE
DAYS.
AND SO MY QUESTION FOR THE CITY
AND FOR DESTINATION ANN ARBOR
IS ARE YOU COMFORTABLE
PARTNERING WITH AN ENTITY WHOSE
PUBLIC IMAGE AND ALL OF ITS
MARKETING IS CENTERED AROUND
THAT SORT OF PRESENTATION,
ESPECIALLY IF THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO PRESENT?
ANN ARBOR IS IN INVITING THE
REST OF THE COUNTRY TO COME
VISIT US HERE
AS I MENTIONED AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE
PRESENTATION THAT WE DID TODAY,
OUR PURPOSE HERE TODAY IS JUST
TO INFORM THAT WE NEED
CONFERENCE SPACE.
IT IS NOT TO SUPPORT ANY
SPECIFIC PROJECT THAT'S BEEN
PROPOSED IN EITHER WAY.
SO IN THAT REGARD WE DO NOT
HAVE COMMENT ABOUT THAT.
>> IT IS STRICTLY THE FACT THAT
WE DO NEED MEETING SPACE IN
THIS AREA.
>> I JUST READ BY ONE THING
REAL QUICKLY AGAIN I APPRECIATE
YOUR OPINIONS AND SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED AROUND FOR SEVEN
YEARS.
SWIMSUIT ISSUE IS NOT AND WE
HAVE A LOT MORE PEOPLE THAT
FOLLOW THE SPORTS PART OF IT
THAN THE THE PART OF IT.
>> AND YOU KNOW, THAT'S WHAT
WE'VE BEEN KNOWN FOR.
>> TAKE IT TAKE A LOOK AT THE
WEBSITE THOUGH.
THAT'S WHAT THEY LEAD WITH.
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT THEY THAT'S
THAT'S WHAT BRINGS IN THE
EYEBALLS WE HAVE.
>> AND WITH REGARDS TO THE
CITY'S POSITION, THE CITY'S
TAKEN NO POSITION OR ANYTHING
GOING FORWARD.
THERE'S BEEN NO DECISION MADE.
WE'RE SIMPLY RELAYING THAT
SOMEONE HAS APPROACHED US.
THEY WANT TO HAVE DISCUSSIONS.
WE'VE BEEN HAVING DISCUSSIONS.
WE NOTHING'S BEEN SETTLED YET.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
THANK YOU.
MR. CARNEY.
MY NAME IS KEN GARBER.
I WANT TO THANK THE PRESENTERS
FOR COMING OUT FACING THE
PUBLIC.
IT'S NOT EASY TO DO BUT ON THE
OTHER HAND IT'S NOT EASY FOR
THE PUBLIC TO GET UP HERE AND
YOU KNOW, SPEAK IN FRONT
OF SUCH A LARGE CROWD.
SO I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
HAS COME OUT AND I REALLY
APPRECIATE EVERYONE'S COMMENTS
AND SPOKEN ABOUT THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS.
I WANT TO DO ALL ELECTRIC AND
NET ZERO SOUND GREAT BUT THESE
TERMS CAN BE USED TO GREEN
WATER HIGH EMISSIONS BUILDING.
SO MY QUESTIONS WOULD BE THESE
WILL YOU BE USING GEOTHERMAL OR
AIR FORCE HEAT PUMPS?
WILL IT BE A VAST SYSTEM OR A
PAETEC SYSTEM OFTEN USED BY
HOTELS WHICH IS EXTREMELY
INEFFICIENT AND IS BASICALLY
SELF-DEFEATING FORM OF ELECTRIC
?
SO WHAT ELSE ARE AND EVERY
ENERGY RECOVERY VENTILATION
SYSTEM NATURAL IMPLIES THAT YOU
WILL BE GENERATING ENERGY SITE.
WILL THAT BE SOLAR?
HOW MUCH WILL IT BE?
WILL IT BE BATTERY STORAGE ON
SITE?
>> YOU KNOW CARBON OFFSETS ARE
NOT A SOLUTION IF THAT'S PART
OF IT THAT'S EQUATION THAT'S
UNACCEPTABLE.
LEED GOLD HAVE YOU SQUIRT OUT
THE LEAD COLD ELEMENTS LEAK ALL
BY ITSELF.
THERE'S NOTHING REALLY ABOUT
THE CARBON EMISSIONS OF A
BUILDING NOT ANTICIPATE THAT
YOUR THIS WILL BE WELL IT'S TOO
EARLY TO WORK OUT ALL THESE
PROBLEMS.
THESE ARE THESE ARE ENGINEERING
SOLUTIONS THAT WILL COME IN
AFTER SITE PLAN APPROVAL ONCE
WE PUT OUT THE BRIDGE AND ETC..
WELL, IF YOU WANT US TO TAKE
THIS BUILDING SERIOUSLY, I
THINK YOU NEED TO ENTER THIS
UPFRONT.
THE FACT THAT YOU'RE GOING WITH
GAS FOR YOUR RESTAURANT SEEMS
TO INDICATE TO ME YOU HAVEN'T
READ THE ORIGINAL PLAN WHICH
EXPLICITLY RULES THAT OUT.
SO IT MAKES ME EXTREMELY
SKEPTICAL THAT THIS WILL BE A
TRUE NATURAL BUILDING.
BUY THE PLAN DEFINITION
.
>> SO JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY
OUR TENT IS FOR IT TO BE A NET
ZERO BUILDING ARE OUR FIRM'S
COMMITMENT TO SIGN THE A TWENTY
THIRTY PLEDGE IS TO BE
RESPONSIBLE IN MATERIAL
SOURCING TO CONTRIBUTE TO AN
ACTUAL PLAN TO SUPPORT A TO
SUPPORT NET ZERO EMISSIONS BY
20 30.
SO AS PART OF OUR COMMITMENTS
TO BE RESPONSIBLE SPECIFIERS
THAT IS OUR GOAL FOR THIS
PROJECT.
I WANT TO CLARIFY THAT THIS
PROJECT CURRENTLY IS THAT WE'RE
NOT COMMITTING TO NET ZERO YET
IN YOU'RE CORRECT WE WE DON'T
WE'RE STILL EARLY IN THE
PROCESS.
WE DON'T HAVE OUR OUR EXPERTS
AND OUR ENGINEERS ON BOARD BUT
WE ARE COMMITTING TO A HIGH
PERFORMANCE BUILDING WITH
SUSTAINABLE MAKE IT TO ACHIEVE
THE LEAD GOAL SCORECARD THAT WE
HAVE THAT WE HAVE RIGHT NOW.
>> WHAT WAS THE OTHER QUESTION
?
ONE IS SPECIFIC TO THE
DIFFERENT THINGS.
YES, MA'AM.
HI MY NAME IS JULIE REHDER.
>> I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR FOR
A LONG TIME.
>> THANK YOU FOR THIS HEARING.
>> UH, I HAVE SO MANY QUESTIONS
AT TWO MINUTES.
GEE MY TWO MOST IMPORTANT
QUESTIONS ARE NUMBER ONE WHY
WAS THERE NO RFP YOU WERE
APPROACHED BY A FRIEND.
JUST LOOK AT
THIS PROJECT.
WHY DIDN'T WHY DIDN'T SOMEBODY
GO GEE, THIS IS TIME FOR AN
RFP.
THIS COULD BE ONE PROJECT.
MAYBE THERE'S OTHER ONES WE
WANT TO LOOK AT TOO AT THE SAME
TIME FOR THE SITE WHY WAS THERE
NO RFP?
AND BRETT, YOU SAID THAT THIS
PROJECT YOU SAID THAT THIS
PROJECT WOULD FOLLOW ALL THE
PROCESSES THAT ANY OTHER
PROJECT WOULD FOLLOW BUT IT HAS
NOT DONE THAT YET.
THIS HAS GONE UNDER THE RADAR.
IT WAS SPRUNG ON A SWEET
GIANARIS RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF DOWNTOWN COMPLETE NO
TRANSPARENCY, NO PUBLIC
INVOLVEMENT.
YOU'VE GONE WAY DOWN THE TRACK
ON THIS AND THERE'S NOBODY ELSE
THAT'S LOOKING AT OTHER
ALTERNATIVES AND THAT THAT'S
ALL I HAVE TO SAY.
>> I'D LIKE TO KNOW WHY THERE
IS NO RFP IN RESPONSE TO YOUR
QUESTION.
>> IF I GO BACK TO THE COMMENTS
I MADE AT THE OPENING OF THE
MEETING, I WAS VERY TRANSPARENT
WITH CITY COUNCIL AND ASKING I
WAS VERY TRANSPARENT ASKING IF
WE COULD LOOK AT DEVELOPMENT
OF THE CLINE LOT.
I DID HAVE PERMISSION TO DO
WHAT I'VE DONE.
>> WE'VE NOT MADE ANY DECISIONS
.
CITY COUNCIL HAS NOT BEEN ASKED
TO VOTE ON ANYTHING.
WHAT WE'VE DONE THUS FAR IS
HAVE KAMASI CITY COUNCIL CAN
ALWAYS DECIDE TO GO TO AN RFP.
>> WE HAVEN'T BEEN GIVEN THAT
DIRECTION YET.
THIS THIS MEETING THIS MEETING
TONIGHT WAS DESIGNED TO GIVE
INFORMATION AND TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS AND TO TAKE INPUT
FROM THE PUBLIC.
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DOING
WHERE IT ALL ENDS UP.
>> I CAN'T TELL YOU BUT EVERY
THING EVERY ASPECT OF THE
PROJECT SHOULD THERE BE A
VIABLE PROJECT WILL BE
COMPLETELY TRANSPARENT.
IT CAN'T BE EVEN VOTED ON IF
IT'S NOT TRANSPARENT.
SO THAT WOULD BE THE DIRECTION
THAT WE WOULD GO.
YES, MA'AM.
HI, I'M KAREN HART.
>> I'M THE FORMER PLANNING
DIRECTOR AND I'VE LIVED IN ANN
ARBOR FOR THIRTY TWO YEARS AND
THAT COUNTY IN GRAD SCHOOL AND
I'M KIND OF APPALLED THAT YOU
HAD NO IDEA THAT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WAS THE HIGHEST USE
THAT THE CITY HAD FLAGGED IN
THE RECENT PAST HER THE CLIENTS
A LOT BUT I GUESS YOU KNOW IT
NOW I I I'LL I'LL RESERVE ANY
COMMENTS I HAVE ABOUT THE
DESIGN OF THE BUILDING OR THE
SITE MECHANICS OR WHY ISN'T THE
PARKING UNDERGROUND FOR YOU
KNOW, THE SURVEY?
I THINK MORE FUNDAMENTALLY
TONIGHT IT'S VERY CONCERNING TO
ME ABOUT THIS SITE.
>> IS IT APPROPRIATE FOR THE
U.S. WHAT TO DO?
I AGREE WE NEED A CONFERENCE
CENTER.
WE'VE NEEDED IT FOR DECADES.
THE BROWN BLOCKS JUST DOWN THE
STREET THAT'S WHERE WE SHOULD
GO.
>> IT'S A MUCH BIGGER SITE AND
BILL MARTIN'S BIG UVM FAN I'M
SURE HE LIKES SPORTS SINCE HE
WAS ON THE OLYMPIC COMMITTEE.
HE PROBABLY WANTS A LOT
OF MONEY FOR IT TO BUT THAT'S
WHERE IT SHOULD GO.
>> IT'S ON A MAIN STREET THAT
IT WILL BE EASY TO FIND THE
STREET, THE STREETS, WILLIAM
AND ASHLEY ARE LIKE NOW
COMPLETELY BLOCKED BY TWO WAY
BIKE PATHS.
THE NOBODY WHO WORKS IN THIS
FACILITY WILL BE ABLE TO LIVE
IN ANN ARBOR SO GREAT CREATING
JOBS BUT WE DON'T HAVE A
CONFERENCE CENTER CRISIS.
WE NEED A CONFERENCE CENTER.
WE HAVE A HOUSING CRISIS FOR
PEOPLE AND THAT'S WHAT THE SITE
IS SUPPOSED TO ADDRESS.
IT NEEDS TO BE A HIGH DENSITY
AFFORDABLE MAYBE MIXED USE
MIXED MARKET HOUSING AND THE
SOONER WE DO IT THE SOONER MY
DAUGHTER WILL BE ABLE TO STAY
IN TOWN.
THE SOONER I CAN DOWNSIZE AND
LIVE IN SOME PLACE THAT I DON'T
NEED ANYMORE AND I JUST I'M
JUST DISMAYED THAT YOU'RE THIS
FAR DOWN THE LINE AND YOU HAVE
NOT YOU NEED TO FIND A
DIFFERENT SITE.
I I'M NOT A BIG SPORTS FAN.
I DON'T CARE ABOUT THAT STUFF
BUT I DO THINK A CONFERENCE
CENTER IS GREAT AND IF THIS ONE
IS WONDERFUL BUT THERE'S
NOTHING IN IT THAT I WOULD EVER
GO TO EXCEPT MAYBE THE
RESTAURANT PUT IT ON A
DIFFERENT SITE AND BUILD
HOUSING ON THE CLIMATE AS SOON
AS WE CAN.
YES, THANK YOU.
>> MY NAME IS JOHN DOE, INTERIM
PRESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
I'VE GOT A QUESTION ABOUT
TRANSPARENCY THAT I THINK IT'S
THIS IS IT'S IT'S A VERY
IMPORTANT ISSUE.
IT'S BEEN RAISED SEVERAL TIMES
.
MR. DOWNIE, YOU MENTIONED IN AN
EMAIL THAT THAT OR ANY COMMENTS
ACTUALLY TO COUNSEL THAT STAFF
HAVE BEEN WORKING ON THIS FOR
INTENSIVELY WHEN YOU'D MET WITH
COUNSEL TO TALK ABOUT IT AND
AND SOMETIME IN THE FALL I
THINK OCTOBER NOVEMBER MEETING.
SO CLEARLY THAT HAS BEEN A LOT
OF WORK, AN EXCEPTIONAL AMOUNT
OF WORK THAT'S GONE INTO THIS
PROJECT LONG BEFORE IT CAME TO
THE PUBLIC'S ATTENTION AND WAS
FIRST CAME TO THE PUBLIC'S
ATTENTION BECAUSE OF A PRESS
RELEASE FROM SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
ITSELF NOTHING THE CITY
RELEASED.
BUT I HAVE A VERY SPECIFIC
QUESTION DID YOU HELP ORGANIZE
A MEETING OR TWO MEETINGS
BETWEEN THE DEVELOPERS AND
MEMBERS OF CITY COUNCIL IN THE
FALL IN TWO SECTIONS IN ORDER
THAT THESE COULD BE HELD
PRIVATELY AND NOT BE SUBJECT TO
THE OPEN MEETINGS ACT OF THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN?
>> THERE WERE BUT OBSTACLES TO
ANSWER REQUESTED.
I'M HERE LISTENING OK I
ORGANIZED TWO INFORMATIONAL
SESSIONS.
HAVE I ORGANIZED ANY MEETINGS
TO CIRCUMVENT O'MAY?
>> NO I HAVE NOT DONE THAT.
>> I SAID WHEN WE WERE FIRST
APPROACHED AND SO LET ME GIVE
CONTEXT TO WHAT'S HAPPENED.
>> WE WERE APPROACHED ABOUT THE
IDEA OF A POTENTIAL HOTEL IN
THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
I ORGANIZED A MEETING OF MAYBE
TWENTY FIVE OR SO INDIVIDUALS
FROM BEYOND JUST CITY OF ANN
ARBOR TO ALLOW SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED TO PRESENT THEIR
IDEA PRIOR TO EVER HEARING
ANYTHING FROM SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED I HAD ALREADY BEEN
IN DISCUSSIONS WITH DESTINATION
ANN ARBOR ABOUT NEEDS AND THE
COMMUNITY.
I LEARNED ABOUT THE NEED FOR A
CONFERENCE CENTER FROM THEM
WHEN I FIRST ENGAGED WITH
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED THEY WERE
ONLY TALKING ABOUT A HOTEL
INITIALLY AND I ASKED THEM
ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF THE
CONFERENCE CENTER GOING INSIDE
OF THE HOTEL.
>> I HAD BEEN COMPLETELY
ABOVEBOARD IN EVERYTHING THAT
I'VE DONE FROM THE VERY
BEGINNING.
>> I'M NOT TRYING TO HIDE
ANYTHING FROM ANYONE.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT SO I CAN
TAKE IT THEN YOU'RE SAYING THAT
YOU DID NOT SCHEDULE THESE
SEPARATE MEETINGS WITH HALVES
OF THE COUNCIL IN ORDER TO
AVOID THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
OPEN MEETINGS?
THAT'S CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
>> YES MA'AM.
MY NAME IS MARSHA PALLENBERG
RAMSEY.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR FOR AT
LEAST TWENTY FOUR YEARS
PROBABLY MORE.
I WAS A GRADUATE STUDENT HERE
TAUGHT HERE LOTS MY QUESTIONS
ARE THE ESTHETICS OF THE
BUILDING ARE TOTALLY OUT
OF SCALE WITH THE SURROUNDING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS THE NATURE
OF THE ANN ARBOR WE DON'T NEED
ANOTHER BRAND.
WE HAVE A BRAND.
WE'RE REALLY PROUD OF THE
HISTORIC SENSE THAT WE HAVE
THAT THE BUILDING HAS NO
RELATION TO THE BUILDINGS THAT
STAND.
SO THAT'S ONE POINT.
THE OTHER IS YOUR RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE CHEROKEE TRIBE
GAMBLING IS THIS GOING TO BE A
GAMBLING MECCA?
WE HAVE NO PLANS NOR WILL BRING
GAMING AT ALL.
THAT IS NOT OUR PLAN AND I HAVE
TO RESPOND TO ONE THING AS I'M
A CITIZEN HERE THE BUILDING
DIRECTLY BEHIND US IN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT WAS BUILT IN
THE EIGHTIES.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, THERE'S NO
SET STANDARD OF WHAT EVERY
BUILDING LOOKS LIKE.
>> IN FACT THEY ALL LOOK VERY
DIFFERENT, WHICH IS NICE.
IT'S A CERTAIN HEIGHT.
THE DOWNTOWN HAS ITS HUMAN
SCALE.
>> THE BUILDING THAT YOU'RE
PROPOSING DOES NOT FIT INTO
THAT CRITERIA.
SO THAT'S MY COMMENT.
>> THANK THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
YES, SIR.
HI.
MY NAME IS RALPH MCKINNEY.
>> I HAVE LIVED HERE FOR 50
YEARS.
I'M SORRY I'M HAPPY TO SAY BUT
I'M SORRY TO SAY ON ANOTHER
LEVEL I HAVE TWO DEGREES HERE
INCLUDING A LAW DEGREE.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHAT YOU'VE SAID ABOUT
THE TAXES THAT WOULD BE PAID
AND THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THAT
THE CITY ITSELF WOULD GAIN IF
THERE'S A NINE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THOUSAND DOLLARS A YEAR
GROUNDLESS AND IN THE TERM
SHEET I READ AND YOU'RE SAYING
YOU'VE SAID THAT THERE'S TWO
HUNDRED AND FORTY MILLION
DOLLARS IN TAXES OVER SIXTY
RELEASE THAT'S FOUR MILLION
ELISSE OR FOUR MILLION A YEAR
IF YOU RUN FIFTY MILES I GUESS
YOU COULD GET THAT IF YOU HAVE
THE RIGHT TCV AND IT ENDS UP
BEING FOUR MILLION A YEAR BUT
THE CITY ITSELF ONLY GETS
SIXTEEN MILLION WHICH IS ABOUT
A THIRD OF THAT.
SO THE REAL NUMBER IF YOU'RE
BEING
FULLY I DON'T WANT TO USE
THE WORD TRANSPARENT THAT'S
YOU'VE BEEN CORRECT.
YOU YOU WOULD GET SOMEWHERE IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF SEVENTY
MILLION A YEAR.
SO I JUST THINK THAT OUGHT TO
BE LAID OUT.
THAT'S THE REAL TERMS.
YES, THE SCHOOLS WOULD GET
MONEY, THE COUNTY WOULD GET
MONEY, ET CETERA.
BUT IT'S NOT THE CITY.
THE SECOND ITEM I THINK THAT
GOES TO THAT IS THAT YOU'RE
ALSO PLANNING AND REALLY TRYING
HARD.
IF I READ THE EMAILS RIGHT TO
GET TIFF'S TIFF'S WOULD MEAN
THAT THAT MONEY WOULD BE WAY,
WAY LESS BECAUSE YOU WOULDN'T
BE PAYING ANY PROPERTY TAXES.
AND SO WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO IS
TO JUST MAKE SURE THAT IN
FUTURE COMMUNICATIONS AND
PUBLIC STATEMENTS WHERE YOU'RE
SAYING THAT THERE'S
MISCONCEPTIONS BEING PROVIDED
BY CRITICS THAT YOU GET YOUR
OWN FACTS STRAIGHT.
THANK YOU
.
I JUST I JUST WANT TO SPEAK
BECAUSE I THINK YOU HAVE THE
RIGHT TO KNOW THAT THE NUMBERS
THAT WE'RE REPRESENTING ARE
BASED UPON ANALYSIS AND STUDY
THAT WE HAVEN'T HAD TIME THIS
EVENING TO PRESENT.
BUT AS WE'VE SAID AND I THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT THERE SEEMS TO
BE SOME MISCONCEPTION THAT THE
CITY HAS GOTTEN ON BOARD HERE.
WHAT HAS OCCURRED IS THAT WE
DID A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF WORK
COLLABORATIVELY TO COME UP TO
MODEL WHAT YOU'RE SEEING HERE,
INCLUDING THE DESIGN.
BUT THAT MODELING DOES NOT
SUGGEST THAT THAT IT'S BEEN
VOTED ON OR THE DECISIONS HAVE
BEEN MADE.
AND TO YOUR POINT, YOU
ABSOLUTELY DESERVE TO SEE ALL
OF THE DETAIL AND ALL OF THE
ANALYSIS IF WE GO FURTHER THAN
THIS PRELIMINARY MODELING, THE
PURPOSE OF THIS AS AND THIS WAS
NOT NOT OUR DIRECTIVE BUT THE
CITY'S DIRECTIVE TO US THE
ADMINISTRATOR WAS OK, WE'VE
DONE ENOUGH MODELING, WE'VE
DONE ENOUGH LIKE BATTING THIS
AROUND.
IT'S NOW TIME TO BRING THIS OUT
AND LET PEOPLE ENGAGE IN THE
CONVERSATION.
AND IF WE WERE TO GO FORWARD
FROM HERE THEN THE NEXT STEP
WOULD BE TO REVEAL IN GREAT
DETAIL TO PRESENT TO GIVE YOU
THE OPPORTUNITY TO KICK AROUND
AND DIG AT AND DISAGREE WITH
THE ANALYSIS OF THE THIRD PARTY
AND THE OTHER PROFESSIONALS
THAT ARE INVOLVED IN THIS.
SO I JUST WANT TO GIVE YOU I
AGREE WITH WHAT YOU SAID.
IF YOU IF YOU WERE TO BELIEVE
THAT A DECISION COULD BE MADE
BASED UPON WHAT YOU'VE BEEN
SHARED TODAY THAT THAT WOULD BE
A NO NO NO ONE'S SAYING THAT
ALL THAT HAS OCCURRED IS SOME
MODELING, SOME DESIGN AND SOME
WORK HAS BEEN DONE ON A
STRUCTURE THAT RESPONDS TO THE
DEMAND STUDIES THAT YOUR OWN
CITY HAS DONE.
THAT'S ALL THAT'S BEEN DONE
FROM HERE.
THERE IS ANOTHER LAYER AND
THERE ARE MULTIPLE LEVELS
OF ADDITIONAL ENGAGEMENT.
SO I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT WHAT YOU'VE SAID WOULD BE
ACCURATE IF WE WERE AT THE
POINT OF A DECISION.
BUT AT THIS POINT IT'S BEEN THE
MODELING.
IT'S JUST BEEN A MODELING
EXERCISE.
I JUST THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT
FOR TO HEAR.
>> WELL, THIS LADY'S BEEN
WAITING.
YOU CAN THANK YOU.
THESE ARE BASIC NUMBERS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A THIRD OF THE
OF THE TAXES THAT YOU'RE YOU'RE
PUTTING OUT TWO HUNDRED AND
FORTY MILLION AND THE REAL
NUMBER IS SEVENTY TWO MILLION
OR SOMEWHERE IN THAT RANGE
REGARDLESS OF HOW YOU PLAY IT
OUT LATER THE THE NUMBERS WOULD
BE DRAMATICALLY LESS IF YOU
WERE USING TIFF'S.
THOSE ARE NOT THINGS THAT YOU
HAVE TO GET A FINAL DECISION
AND I WASN'T PUTTING IT ON MR.
GHAJINI OR THE CITY THESE ARE
YOUR PUBLIC STATEMENTS NOT THE
CITIES AT LEAST AS FAR AS I
UNDERSTAND IT.
AND ALL I'M SAYING IS THAT
THOSE ARE BASIC ENOUGH THAT
THEY SHOULD HAVE BEEN PUT OUT
THERE TO BEGIN WITH BECAUSE
YOU'RE REALLY RUNNING A PR
CAMPAIGN AND I'M NOT I'M NOT
DISAGREEING THAT YOU SHOULD DO
THAT.
YOU CAME HERE TO MAKE A
PRESENTATION.
YOU GUYS ARE GOOD SALESMEN.
I'LL SAY THAT.
BUT BUT THOSE FACTS THEY'RE
BASIC.
>> YES.
MY NAME IS GOOD.
NO PAPER AND I HAVE LIVED IN
THE CITY FOR ABOUT THIRTY YEARS
AND I HAVE SEVERE CONCERN.
FIRST OF ALL I WOULD LIKE THE
CITY TO OPEN THE EYES PEACE
PROJECT PROPOSAL RIGHT NOW IT'S
NOT TOO LATE.
IS IT GOING TO CONSIDER THIS
PROJECT?
>> THIS SHOULD BE TRANSPARENT
AND OPEN.
YOUR PROJECT LIKE LOW INCOME
HOUSING ALL OF THOSE THINGS FOR
THIS REPORT.
AND THE SECOND THING THAT I
HAVE TO SAY IS THAT YOUR
PROJECT LOOKING AT IT, HE'S WAY
OUT OF SCALE FOR AND WE LIKE
OUR LITTLE TOWN AND IT'S SO
MANY BIG BUILDINGS HAVE COME
OUT RECENTLY AND A LOT
OF PEOPLE FEEL OVERWHELMED BY
THIS OUT OF SCALE.
WE WANT TO REMAIN NEW.
YOU MEAN CITY IN TERMS OF SCALE
AND I HAVE A CONCERN ABOUT WHAT
ARE YOU GOING TO BUILD A NEW
WATER TREATMENT SYSTEM TO
MANAGE THE WASTE AND KANSAS
CITY MANAGER OF SEVERE DROUGHT
AND STILL SUPPLY RUNNING WATER
IF WE HAVE THE HIGH RISE IN
TEMPERATURE IN THE SUMMER AND
ALSO OF CONCERN I HAVE THIS I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU'VE BEEN IN
AND OUT BUT ON FRIDAY NIGHT BUT
YOU CAN GET OUT OF TOWN.
IT TAKES YOU TO OUR I WANT
CITIES TO HAVE SMALL AND THEY
CANNOT REALLY IT KONZA ADDED
TRAFFIC THAT'S GOING ON
EVERYWHERE AND THAT'S JUST
GETTING OUT OF THE OCEAN.
SO WE HAVE TO THINK OF THAT TO
TRAFFIC THAT THIS IS GOING TO
BRING TO OUR DOWNTOWN AND THEN
IS YOU WHO YOU CENTRAL GOING TO
BE SHERLOCKS AND BECAUSE WE
HAVE A SUSTAINABILITY HUSA
THANK YOU.
THE THE ONE QUESTION YOU ASK
ABOUT WHETHER IT BE ENOUGH
WATER FOR PEOPLE IN ANN ARBOR.
YES, THIS PROJECT WOULD HAVE NO
IMPACT ON OUR ABILITY TO
DELIVER WATER ALSO
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR DEALING WITH
SEWERS.
>> YES SIR.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ED SHAFRON.
I'VE BEEN IN DEVELOPING IN THIS
COMMUNITY FOR 42 YEARS.
I'VE NEVER I'VE BEEN IN THIS
TOWN I'VE NEVER HEARD OF YOU.
I'VE NEVER SEEN YOU.
I'VE NEVER SEEN TO DEVELOP
ANYTHING IN THE COMMUNITY NOT
THAT YOU HAVE I I WAS THE GUY
THAT KICKED THE TOOK CARE
OF THE ADULT BOOKSTORE WHEN I
WAS IN TOWN I WAS ONE THAT
REINTRODUCED LOFT LIVING IN THE
DOWNTOWN I HAVE RENOVATED OVER
TWO DOZEN HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
THE DOWNTOWN ON EVERY ONE
OF THEM I CAN'T TELL YOU I'M
NOT GOING TO HEAR YOUR
CRITICIZE YOUR DEVELOPMENT
BECAUSE BEING A DEVELOPER THAT
WOULD BE THAT WOULD BE WRONG
FOR ME.
>> BUT WHAT I CAN TELL YOU IS
I'VE LEARNED THIS COMMUNITY AND
YOU TALK A GREAT STORY ABOUT
ALL THESE PEOPLE COMING INTO
TOWN.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S WHAT THESE
PEOPLE WANT.
>> I DON'T THINK AND I NEVER
ONCE I WAS PEOPLE COMING INTO
OUR TOWN THAT MAY BE YOUR WISH
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT'S THE
WISH OF THESE CITIZENS QUESTION
FOR YOU, TONY.
THE VOTE ON THIS IS IT AN EIGHT
THREE VOTE?
IS IT IS IT AN EIGHT
SUPERMAJORITY VOTE TO APPROVE A
PROJECT LIKE THIS TO SELL AND
LEASE CITY LAND?
YES.
SO IN OTHER WORDS FOR COUNCIL
PEOPLE COULD KILL THE DEAL.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT IS CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
YES, SIR.
HI MY NAME IS MICHAEL.
WHAT'S I AM A COLLEGE DROPOUT
BUT MAKE FUNNY THINGS ON THE
INTERNET SO THANKS FOR COMING.
I KNOW IT'S NOT EASY I JUST
DIDN'T GIVE A CREATIVE
PRESENTATION.
I HAVE TO GET FEEDBACK ON THEM
ALL DAY.
I THINK AS WITH THAT I'M NOT
GOING TO CRITICIZE YOUR
DEVELOPMENT.
I MEAN I WOULD RECOMMEND THAT
WE'RE SHOWING IT FROM THE OTHER
SIDE BECAUSE THAT IS WHERE
EVERYBODY SEES THE STRUCTURE
AND IT'S READILY EVIDENT THAT
YOU ARE PURPOSEFULLY NOT
SHOWING IT FROM MAIN STREET,
THE HEART OF THE CITY AND JUST
SHOWING THE BACKSIDE OF IT.
AND I THINK THAT WOULD GO A
LONG WAY IN HELPING, YOU KNOW,
HELPING PEOPLE GET A SENSE
OF THE UNDERSTANDING.
YOU ALSO MENTIONED THAT THE
SITE IS A BROWNFIELD WHICH THE
COUNTY HAS NO RECORD OF .
APPARENTLY IT IS JUST THE CITY.
COULD YOU PLEASE TELL US HOW
BAD THE POLLUTION IS AND FROM
WHAT BUILDING IT CAME FROM AND
THE TANTA THAT IF YOU'RE GOING
TO BE DEVELOPING AS A BRAND FOR
BROWNFIELD OR TRANSFORMATION OR
BROWNFIELD PROJECTS, WILL YOU
BE RECAPTURING THE INCOME TAX
FROM ANYBODY WHO WORKS AND
LIVES ON SITE?
>> THANK YOU
.
>> SO AS FAR AS THE GROUND FOR
WHAT WE'VE BEEN TOLD BY THE THE
GROUPS THAT WE'VE HIRED BECAUSE
OF THE PREVIOUS OLDER BUILDINGS
THAT WERE THERE, YOU KNOW THAT
STATISTICALLY THAT THEY WOULD
HAVE SOME KIND OF BROWNFIELD
REMEDIATION FROM LEDS FOR ALL
KINDS OF STUFF.
IT'S JUST A FACT WHEN YOU'VE
HAD THERE IS A BIG BUILDING
THERE FOR FOUR YEARS, DECADES
AND WHEN YOU HAVE THOSE KIND
OF THINGS YOU DO STATISTICALLY
HAVE BROWNFIELD ISSUES.
THEY HAVE SAID YOU WILL ALMOST
A HUNDRED PERCENT HAVE ISSUES
WITH THE SITE WHICH WILL NEED
TO BE REMEDIATED BUT WE WERE
PREPARED TO DO IT.
I THINK SOMETHING THAT'S
INTERESTING TOO AND I
APPRECIATE EVERYBODY HERE
TONIGHT AND WE REALLY DO
APPRECIATE YOUR YOUR INPUT.
I THINK THAT'S ON THE MOST
IMPORTANT THINGS ABOUT WHY THE
CITY BROUGHT US HERE TONIGHT.
THIS ISN'T A DONE DEAL.
YOU KNOW, IT'S IT'S REALLY TO
TALK TO YOU AND GET YOUR
OPINIONS AND WE APPRECIATE
THOSE YOU KNOW, I BECAUSE
OF THE FACT THAT WE WILL BRING
IN A LOT OF REVENUE TO THE
CITY.
YES.
THAT'S A FACT.
WE LOOK AT THE STUDIES.
WE KNOW SOMETHING IS RIGHT
SIDE.
YOU'VE MADE SOME GOOD YOU KNOW,
GOOD OPINIONS HERE.
ONE A PUBLIC SITE IS YOU KNOW,
IT'S KIND OF BUT FOR BECAUSE
THESE ARE BIG PROJECTS, YOU
KNOW, THAT'S WHY P THREE
PROGRAMS ARE PUT IN PLACE
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND BECAUSE
YOU CAN COME AND JUST BUY LIKE
SOMEONE SAID, BUY A REALLY
EXPENSIVE PIECE OF PROPERTY AND
BUILD SO MANY THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET OF COMMERCIAL SPACE.
>> YOU CAN DO THAT.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE A PUBLIC
PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP BECAUSE IT
DOES BRING THOSE KIND
OF BENEFITS TO THE CITY.
THAT'S NOT AN ARGUMENT.
THAT'S JUST THE FACTS IS
WHAT
THE STUDIES SHOW US WHAT OTHER
CITIES HAVE.
>> SO AGAIN, WE APPRECIATE YOUR
YOUR INPUT AND REALLY DO YOU
KNOW AND WE ARE HOPEFUL WE CAN
DO SOMETHING HERE IN ANN ARBOR
AND THAT'S WHAT THAT WAS OUR
GOAL TONIGHT TO GET YOUR INPUT
TO THANK YOU.
>> THERE WAS A QUESTION THAT
CAME IN BY ZOOME ASKING ABOUT
DOES THERE NEED TO BE A ZONING
CHANGE?
THE ANSWER IS NO THERE DOES
NOT.
YES, SIR.
PLEASE.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS CLARISSA INTENSE.
MY ONLY CLAIM TO FAME IS THAT I
AM A LONG TERM TAXPAYER AND AN
UPPER SO I'M CONCERNED ABOUT
HOW YOU SPEND MY MONEY OR MANY
OTHER PEOPLE'S MONEY AND SO YOU
DID A VERY NICE JOB WITH YOUR
PRESENTATION.
HOWEVER YOU DIDN'T TALK ABOUT
EXPENSIVE MONEY.
YOU TALKED ABOUT T-3, YOU
TALKED ABOUT PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP BY MY ALARM BELLS
GO OFF AND THEN ON THE OTHER
SIDE YOU HAD OH THIS IS THE
VERY BEGINNING THE NOTHING HAS
BEEN VOTED WHEN CITY COUNCIL
VOTES ON THIS ITS WAY TO TO LET
ALL DOGS HAVE BEEN LINED UP BY
THEN THE DECISIONS ARE BEING
TAKEN RIGHT NOW AND SO WERE
DECISIONS AND I'M AFRAID THAT
THIS LACK OF FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE FROM YOUR PERHAPS
YOUR GOOD SALESMAN IT'S YOUR
RIGHT TO DO SO BUT THE CITY HAS
NO RIGHT TO DO SO AND SO
THEREFORE I'M AFRAID THE CITY
IS MAKING UNDER THE TABLE
PROMISES THAT WE DON'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT BUT WHEN IT WILL
ONLY COME TO LIGHT WHEN THE
CITY VOTES ON THIS AND IT'S WAY
TOO TOO LATE.
SO THE ONLY ACTION FOR YOU IS
TO STOP THIS PROJECT RIGHT NOW
TO WRITE AN RFP AND BRING IT
OUT TO THE PUBLIC AND SEE WHAT
OTHER PROJECTS ARE STOPPING.
PLEASE SIR, I APPRECIATE THAT
YOU EXPRESSED YOUR FEELINGS.
I DO NEED TO SAY THERE HAS BEEN
NOTHING THAT'S TAKEN PLACE
UNDER THE TABLE.
THERE'S NO ONE TAKING MONEY.
>> THERE'S NOBODY OFFERING
MONEY.
NOTHING LIKE THAT IS GOING ON
.
SIR, I HAD PERMISSION TO HAVE
DISCUSSIONS WITH THEM THAT
WASN'T THERE WASN'T SOMETHING
THAT WAS HIDDEN
.
WE GOT WE GOOD NO OK.
>> YES MA'AM.
PLEASE.
WELL, I HADN'T HEARD ABOUT THIS
PROJECT.
I WAS CONCERNED ABOUT IT SO I
DID A LITTLE LOOKING ON THE
INTERNET AND I HAVE FOUND THAT
OTHER CITIES YOU HAVE BEEN IN
TOUCH WITH HAVE KICKED YOU OUT
AND I HAVE ALSO FOUND THAT SOME
OF YOU HAVE BEEN FIRED FROM
WORKING AS EMPLOYEES OF CITIES
FOR DOING THINGS LIKE TRYING TO
BRING A FOR PROFIT CONFERENCE
CENTER TO THE CITY.
I ALSO HAVE FOUND OUT THAT ONE
VIEW HAS BEEN FOUND GUILTY OF A
SEXUAL ASSAULT AND SO I THINK
THAT YOU SHOULD MAKE WHO YOU
ARE TOTALLY CLEAR TO US AND
PRESENT TO YOUR BACKGROUND NOT
IN ONE MINUTE TO SAY I AM THE
DIRECTOR OF BLAH BLAH BLAH BUT
TO REALLY KNOW WHO YOU ARE AND
WHAT YOU STAND FOR.
YOU KNOW, I HAVE TO I HAVE TO
MAKE COMMENTS.
I'M SORRY WE HAVE BEEN KICKED
OUT OF THAT.
IN FACT WE HAVE CITIES CHASING
US DOWN.
I WISH WE COULD DO THIS IN ANN
ARBOR BECAUSE IT'S MY BACKYARD
AND YOU SHOULD NEED TO BE REAL
CAREFUL ABOUT SAYING THINGS
LIKE SEXUAL BECAUSE THOSE ARE
THINGS THAT YOU SHOULDN'T BRING
UP AND SAY THINGS BECAUSE I
DON'T KNOW WHETHER IT'S
VALIDATED AGAIN I WAS BEING
KICKED OUT OF ANY CITY IN FACT
JUST THE OPPOSITE.
SO I CAN MAKE SURE WE GET OUR
FACTS STRAIGHT THEN I GUESS I
NEED TO TO COMMENT SINCE THERE
WAS A REFERENCE MADE ABOUT
CITIES.
SO I'M COMING UPON NEARLY 40
YEARS IN THE PROFESSION.
I'VE NEVER BEEN FIRED.
I'VE NEVER HAD AN ALLEGATION
LEVELED AGAINST ME ABOUT ANY
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
THERE WAS A POINT IN MY CAREER
WHERE I WAS DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC
SAFETY CARRIED THE RANK
OF COLONEL WAS WAR.
>> HE HAD A BADGE AND A GUN.
>> I HAD A TOP LEVEL CLEARANCE
FROM THE FBI.
I'M NOT A CRIMINAL.
THERE'S NOTHING UNTOWARD ABOUT
MY BACKGROUND.
I'VE NEVER BEEN FIRED FROM ANY
KIND JOB AND IT'S UNFORTUNATE I
NEEDED TO SAY THAT BUT I CAN'T
LET THAT KIND OF THING FLOAT IN
THE AIR AND HAVE PEOPLE
WONDERING YES SIR, PLEASE.
>> YOU WILL BE OUR LAST
QUESTION THERE WERE NINE TEN
MAKE IT QUICK.
>> THANK YOU SIR.
MY NAME IS BILL CIZRE.
I'M A BUSINESS OWNER ON MAIN
STREET.
YES SIR.
RIGHT BEHIND THE DECLINE LOT.
THERE'S BEEN A LOT SAID ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON THE LOT.
THERE'S A LOT BEEN SAID ABOUT
EVERYTHING.
I AGREE AND HAVE BENEFITED FROM
THE PLUMBERS AND PIPEFITTERS
COMING IN.
>> I AGREE THAT CONVENTION IS
IMPORTANT FOR THE CITY.
I DO I DO WANT TO TO MAKE IT
VERY CLEAR HOWEVER AND THIS IS
A SELFISH THING I REALIZE THAT
THAT LOT IS GOING TO BE
DEVELOPED.
I REALIZED THAT IT IS NO LONGER
GOING TO BE SIMPLY A PARKING
FACILITY.
HOWEVER, THE CITY NEEDS TO TAKE
INTO CONSIDERATION THAT THAT IS
THE ENTRANCE FOR THE BUSINESSES
THAT THRIVE ON MAIN STREET.
THE FIRST QUESTION THAT
EVERYONE COMING INTO ANY
BUSINESS IN DOWNTOWN AND ASK IS
WHERE DO WE PARK?
THE SECOND QUESTION IS OUR
STATEMENT IS WE DON'T COME
DOWNTOWN THAT OFTEN BECAUSE
THERE'S NO PLACE TO PARK.
SO I'M ASSUMING THIS IS NOT A
DONE DEAL.
BUT I'M SAYING THAT WHEN YOU GO
FORWARD AND YOU LOOK AT OTHER
TYPES OF PROJECTS FOR THAT
PARTICULAR SLOT AND THAT
PARTICULAR LOT ONLY THAT YOU
TAKE IN CONSIDERATION IN THE
EXISTING BUSINESSES AND WHAT WE
CONTRIBUTE TO THE CITY AND TAKE
INTO CONSIDERATION OUR NEEDS
AND OUR NEEDS ARE TO HAVE AN
ENTRANCE NOT COMPLETELY BLOCKED
TO PROHIBIT PEOPLE FROM COMING
INTO THE MAIN STREET
OF DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
>> SO I HOPE THAT ON FUTURE
PROPOSALS AND I'M ASSUMING
YOU'RE GOING TO GET SOME MORE
PROPOSALS I HOPE ON FUTURE
COMPUT PROPOSALS THAT IT'S NOT
TOTALLY BLOCKED AND THERE ARE
SOME CONSIDERATION MADE FOR
INCORPORATING EXISTING
BUSINESSES THAT ARE THAT ARE
ALREADY CONTRIBUTING TO CITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THOSE PEOPLE THAT
WATCH AFTER TONIGHT THERE THIS
WILL BE PLACED ON THE YOUTUBE
CHANNEL OF THE CITY.
YOU WILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
THERE ARE SOME SEATS ON THE
TABLE IF YOU HAVEN'T GOTTEN ONE
FOR QUESTIONS AFTER THE FACT IF
YOU PROVIDE QUESTIONS OR MORE
FEEDBACK, THERE IS A QR
CODE RESPONSES.
OUR FEEDBACK IS DUE INTO THE
CITY BY FEBRUARY THE 4TH AND I
WOULD LIKE TO THANK ALL OF YOU
FOR COMING OUT THIS EVENING.
PLEASE BE CAREFUL IN YOUR
LEAVING BUT IF YOU'VE GOT
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS OR
FEEDBACK, PLEASE USE THE QR
CODE AVAILABLE.
I'LL LEAVE ANYTHING OUT MY GOOD
OK, THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH